Abridged Procurement Policy 
The following is an abridged updated version of the procurement policy to facilitate the understanding of the process  
and expedite the acquisition activities: 
The following steps are to be adopted after securing the appropriate budget for goods and services or after adopting  the 
capital planning and management cycle for capital projects. 
Procurement Thresholds 
The following table highlights the different procurement journeys based on the transaction threshold: 
 
Sourcing Type 
Threshold (USD) 
Direct Purchase Order (DPO Policy Applies) 
Up to 2,000 
Single Offer 
Up to 3,000 
Competitive Offers (RFQ or RFP) 
3,001 - 35,000 
Invitational Tender (RFQ or RFP) 
Above 35,000 
 
Procurement Journey for Goods, Services and Projects 
* Please note that delaying the submission of any of the required documents mentioned below may result in delay to 
procure the required goods or services. 
 
Activity (Sorted By Order) 
Initiator 
Processing Entity(s) 
Timeline 
For Projects, Fill the Projects’ 
Approval Form 
• 
Project Manager (PM) 
• 
Relevant Stakeholders 
as indicated in the 
“Form” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As defined by 
Requesting 
dept. 
For projects, create a WBS 
• 
Project Manager 
• 
Budget Office 
Ensure budget allocation in the 
respective GL (WBS or Cost 
Center) 
• 
Project Manager 
• 
Project Manager 
Create Purchase Requisition 
(PR) 
• 
Project Manager/Requesting 
Dept. 
• 
Project Manager/ 
Requesting Dept. 
Fill in the Request for Quotation 
(RFQ) or Request For Proposal 
(RFP) template provided by the 
Procurement. 
• 
Procurement will provide the 
template. 
• 
Project Manager/Requesting 
Dept. will fill it in with all 
respective stakeholders. 
• 
Project Manager/ 
Requesting Dept. 
Create a Bill of Material (BoM) 
or Bill of Quantity (BoQ) for RFQ 
• 
Project Manager/Requesting 
Dept. 
• 
Project Manager/ 
Requesting Dept. 
Fill in the relevant technical 
criteria within the Evaluation 
Matrix template provided by 
the Procurement 
• 
Procurement will provide the 
template. 
• 
Project Manager/Requesting 
Dept. will fill it in with all 
respective stakeholders. 
• 
Project Manager/ 
Requesting Dept. 
Create the agreement draft, if 
applicable. 
• 
General Counsel Office will 
provide the template. 
• 
Project Manager /Requesting 
Dept. will be the agreement 
drafting liaison among relevant 
stakeholders. 
• 
Project Manager/ 
Requesting Dept. 
• 
General Counsel (Need 
to review and approve 
the final draft) 
Provide preferred vendor list, if 
any to the Procurement 
• 
Project Manager/Requesting 
Dept. 
• 
Project Manager/ 
Requesting Dept. 
 
After ensuring to carrying out all the above activities, the Project Manager or Requesting Dept. need to send the 
following to the Procurement Office to initiate the acquisition process: 
 
o Complete “Projects Approval Form” signed, if applicable. 
o Complete PR 
o Complete RFQ or RFP (Scope of Work-Technical requirements) 
o BoM or BoQ, if applicable 
o Evaluation Matrix (technical criteria), if applicable 
o Agreement draft, if applicable 
o Preferred vendors list, if any, and related selection criteria 
 
N.B: Please note that the Procurement shall NOT start any procurement activity unless the complete/final version of 
the above set of documents are shared with the Procurement Office with no further edits. 
Activity (Sorted By Order) Initiator 
Processing Entity(s) 
Timeline 
Review the documents shared 
by the PM/Requesting Dept. 
and 
revert 
to 
the 
PM/Requesting Dept. with 
comments if, any. 
• 
Procurement Office 
• 
Procurement Office 
2-3 Days 
Rectify issues with the shared 
documents 
in 
case 
the 
Procurement share comments. 
• 
Project Manager/Requesting 
Dept. 
• 
Project Manager/ 
Requesting Dept. 
As agreed 
with 
Requesting 
Dept. 
Choose the procurement path 
based on the threshold (See 
above) and share the timeline 
with the PM/Requesting Dept. 
• 
Procurement Office 
• 
Procurement Office 
1 Day 
Source the vendors 
• 
Procurement Office 
• 
Procurement Office 
1-2 Days 
Send out the RFQ or RFP 
• 
Procurement Office 
• 
Procurement Office 
1 Day 
Q&As and site visits, if 
applicable 
• 
Procurement Office 
• 
Vendor 
• 
Procurement 
• 
Project Manager/ 
Requesting Dept. 
As agreed 
with 
Requesting 
Dept. 
specified in 
the timeline 
Receive offers and evaluate 
them, where the Procurement 
Office is entirely leading this 
activity. 
• 
Procurement Office 
• 
Project 
Manager/ 
Requesting 
Dept. 
(Technical attributes) 
• 
Procurement Office 
(Financial/Business 
attributes) 
 
 
 
Procurement 
Activities: 
1-3 Days 
The Procurement Office shall 
negotiate the offers received 
with the vendors and might 
invite the PM/Requesting Dept. 
if needed. 
• 
Procurement Office 
• 
Procurement Office 
1-3 Days 
Based on the evaluation results, 
the Procurement shall award 
the highest ranked vendor. 
• 
Procurement Office 
• 
Procurement Office 
1 Day 
Notes: 
•
PM or Requesting Dept. MUST NOT engage in any activity relevant to goods/services acquisitions or projects in
any form unless there is a clear formal consent from the Procurement Office or within the limits of the DPO. (e.g.
Contacting vendors, soliciting offers etc.)
•
RFQ (Apple to Apple): To procure items/services/materials/goods with clear specifications and quantities (e.g.
Furniture, Tools .... etc.) where the evaluation is 100% commercial unless a technical criteria is to be taken into
account, hence the below distribution shall be adopted:
o
30% Technical Evaluation (Attributes to be filled by the End-User)
o
70% Financial Evaluation (Attributes to be filled by the Procurement)
•
RFP (Apple to Orange): To procure technical/design & build solutions/qualitatively measured requests, then the
end-user need to adopt the following procedure:
o
50% Technical Evaluation (Attributes to be filled by the End-User)
o
50% Financial Evaluation (Attributes to be filled by the Procurement)
N.B: The defined distribution is the default, yet some procurement activities might require a variant distribution
which shall be agreed upon among the procurement and the requesting department after assessing the nature of
the procurement request.
•
Technical criteria within the Evaluation Matrix must be Tangible and Measurable.
•
The technical evaluation MUST precede the commercial evaluation, where the PM/Requesting Dept. must send
the technical evaluation results to the Procurement Office prior to the financial evaluation. In some cases, the
Procurement may elect to monitor and review the technical evaluation process.
•
All technical related activities, including but not limited to, PoCs, prototypes/samples solicitation, site visits,
technical inquiries and requests, technical discussions and meetings, should be entirely concluded prior to sharing the
technical evaluation final and irrevocable results with the Procurement Office.
•
BoQ MUST NOT be changed after launching of the RFQ.
•
Procurement Office is the ONLY focal point for all procurement relevant communications between AUC and the
vendors before awarding.
•
Sole Vendor/Brand Purchases and Emergency Purchases Procedures:
1.
The PM/Requesting Dept. will fill in the Sole Vendor/Brand Form after including the plausible justification.
2.
The PM/Requesting Dept. shall solicit the approval of his/her Head of Department/Chair.
3.
The PM/Requesting Dept. shall submit this form to the Procurement Office.
4.
The Procurement Office shall review the form and include its recommendation and send it back to the PM
or Requesting Dept.
5.
The Procurement Office shall process the acquisition request ONLY after the designated approvals are
obtained.
Should you have any queries or comments, please send an email to procurement.services@aucegypt.edu 
Attachments: 
1.
Sole Source/Brand and Single Source Justification Form
2.
Rush Notification - Emergency Purchase Form
3.
Conflict of Interest:
a.
Evaluation Committee Guidelines
b.
Evaluation Committee Member COI Form
c.
Executive Evaluation Report

The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 1 
Adding a Pickup/Drop off Point Policy & Procedures 
 
Policy Statement 
 
This policy is addressing the rules and regulations that govern adding an additional pickup/drop 
off point to any of the existing bus service routes.  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
Riders have unlimited number of requests to add pickup/drop off points. In order to regulate 
these requests, and to be fair to all riders, this policy stipulates the guidelines that governs 
submitting such requests.
Who Approved This Policy 
 
Transportation Committee. 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
All members of the AUC Community, especially those who use the bus. 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
http://in.aucegypt.edu/services/bus-service-schedules/policies-and-procedures 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Eng. Sherif Maged 
 
Responsible University Office: Transportation Office/Bus Service 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for, you may:  
 
1. Call Bus Service Hotline at 01270000066, or  
 
2. Send an e-mail to transport@aucegypt.edu  
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 2 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
Riders can request adding a pickup/drop off point to any of the existing routes; policy and 
procedures are below.  
 
Adding a Pickup/Drop off Point Policy 
 The request should be submitted by 25% of the total route riders, or 75 of the route 
riders (whichever is less); the riders who sign the request must be direct beneficiaries of 
the requested point. 
 The requested point must be within the same route.  
 The requested point should be at least 2 KM away from any point in the route (or any 
other route). 
 The requested point should not compromise the safety and security of the riders (the 
street has to be well lit, parking should be permitted, not in the middle of a bridge/ring 
road, etc…). 
 Routes cannot be changed during the semester; approved point(s) would be added before 
the beginning of semesters.  
 
Adding a Pickup/Drop off Point Procedures 
1. Riders who need to add a point should submit a compiled request that has the names, ID 
numbers, and signatures of all the requesters to be scanned and sent to the bus service 
office at transport@aucegypt.edu 
2. The request gets studied for operational approval by the transportation office for the 
following operational aspects 
 Percentage of riders who are requesting the point of the total route riders 
 Safety & security of the requested point 
 Whether the point is within the same route 
 The distance between the requested point and the points within the same route or in 
any other route.  
3. If the point gets approved on the operational level, the request is submitted for the Bus 
Service committee for decision.  
4. Approved points are added to the relevant route schedule starting the following 
academic semester, during which the point gets evaluated for riders' usage percentage. If 
the point is not actively used as was stated in the request, the point will be re-evaluated 
for cancelation.  
 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: January, 2013 
 
Last Amended Date: December, 2016 
 
Next Review Date: February, 2017 
 

 
1 of 10 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy 
 
I.  
Policy Scope 
 
The American University in Cairo (“AUC” or “the University”) is committed to maintaining learning 
and working environments that are free from all forms of harassment and discrimination, and 
accordingly adopts this Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy (the “Policy”). Discrimination 
and harassment based on sex, gender, marital status, pregnancy, race, color, ethnicity, national origin, 
disability, religion, gender identity or expression, or any other protected characteristic under Egyptian 
law are prohibited. The University will not tolerate discrimination, harassment, sexual harassment 
(including sexual assault) or retaliation in the workplace or educational environment whether 
committed by students, alumni, staff, faculty, vendors, or by visitors to AUC while they are on campus. 
Each member of the community is responsible for fostering civility, for being familiar with the Policy, 
and for refraining from conduct that violates the Policy.  
 
The Policy applies to allegations of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation that take place on 
AUC property or at University-sponsored events, regardless of their location. The Policy may also 
apply to allegations of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation that occur off-campus or to actions 
online when the Title IX Coordinator determines that the off-campus or online conduct could have an 
on-campus impact or threatens the educational mission of the University. Such impact includes:  
 
a. Any situation where it appears that the Respondent (a person accused of misconduct under the 
Policy) may present a danger or threat to the health or safety of self (if an AUC student, 
faculty or staff) or others on AUC property;  
b. Any situation that significantly impinges upon the rights, property, or achievements of AUC 
students, faculty or staff or significantly breaches the peace and/or causes social disorder on 
AUC property;  
c. Any situation that is detrimental to the educational interests of the University; or  
d. Any situation that can impact the educational or work environment of a student, faculty, or 
staff.  
 
II.   
Jurisdiction 
 
As described above, the University may investigate any reported violations of the Policy that occur in 
the context of a University program or activity or that affects the University’s working or learning 
environments, regardless of whether the reported conduct occurred on or off campus. If the Respondent 
is not a member of the University community or is no longer affiliated with the University at the time 
of the complaint (including when the Respondent has graduated or left the University), the University 
may be unable to conduct an investigation or take disciplinary action. However, for every report, the 
Title IX Coordinator will review the circumstances of the reported conduct to determine whether the 
University has jurisdiction over the parties involved and whether there are steps within the University’s 
control that may be taken to address the reported conduct. The University will also assist in identifying 
external reporting options and/or provide appropriate resources to impacted individuals.  
  
III.   
Definitions 
 
For purposes of the Policy: 
 
A. 
“Discrimination” is defined as, but is not limited to, conduct directed at a specific individual or 
a group of identifiable individuals that subjects the individual or group to treatment that adversely 
affects their employment or education because of their sex, gender, marital status, pregnancy, race, 
color, ethnicity, age, national origin, disability, religion, gender identity, or expression, or any other 
protected characteristic under Egyptian law. 
 
Policy Name: 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination 
Policy 
Responsible University Office:  
Office of the General Counsel  
Policy Owner 
General Counsel/CCO 
 
2 of 10 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy 
B. 
“Harassment” is defined as, but is not limited to: a) any type of behavior that is based on sex, 
gender, marital status, pregnancy, race, color, ethnicity, age, national origin, disability, religion, gender 
identity, or expression, or any other protected characteristic under Egyptian law and that b) is so severe 
or pervasive that it interferes with an individual’s work or academic performance or creates an 
intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or academic environment. Harassment when directed at an 
individual because of sex, gender, marital status, pregnancy, race, color, ethnicity, national origin, 
disability, religion, gender identity or expression, or any other protected characteristic under Egyptian 
law, may include, but is not limited to: unwanted physical contact, bullying, or intimidation of any 
person(s); use of epithets, inappropriate jokes, comments or innuendos; obscene or harassing telephone 
calls, e-mails, letters, notes or other forms of communication; and, any conduct that may create a hostile 
working or academic environment. 
 
C. 
“Sexual harassment” whether between people of different sexes or the same sex, is defined to 
include, but is not limited to, obscene or harassing telephone calls, e-mails, letters, notes or other forms 
of communication; unwelcome sexual advances; requests for sexual favors; sexual violence; and other 
behavior of a sexual nature when: a) submission to such conduct is made implicitly or explicitly a term 
or condition of an individual’s employment or participation in an education program; b) submission to 
or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for personnel decisions or for academic 
evaluation or advancement; or c) such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering 
with an individual’s work or academic performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive 
working or educational environment. 
 
D. 
“Sexual Assault” is defined to include, but is not limited to the following: 
 
1. Sexual penetration without consent: Any penetration of the sex organs or anus of another person 
when consent is not present or revoked, or cannot be knowingly given as a result of intoxication or other 
incapacitation; any penetration of the mouth of another person with a sex organ when consent is not 
present, is revoked, or cannot be knowingly given as a result of intoxication or other incapacitation; or 
performing oral sex on another person when consent is not present, or cannot be knowingly given as a 
result of intoxication or other incapacitation. This includes penetration or intrusion, however slight, of 
the sex organs or anus of another person by an object or any part of the body. 
 
2.  Sexual contact without consent: Knowingly touching or fondling a person’s genitals, breasts, or 
buttocks, or knowingly touching a person with one’s own genitals or breasts, when consent is not 
present, is revoked, or cannot be knowingly given as a result of intoxication or other incapacitation. 
This includes contact done directly or indirectly through clothing, bodily fluids, or with an object. It 
also includes causing or inducing a person, when consent is not present, is revoked, or cannot be 
knowingly given as a result of intoxication or other incapacitation, to similarly touch or fondle oneself 
or someone else. 
 
3.   Sexual relations with a minor: Sexual relations with a person under the age of 18 when one of the 
participants is 18 years of age or older.  
 
E.   
Examples of prohibited conduct under the Policy include but are not limited to: 
 
1.   Making repeated, unwelcome comments about someone’s appearance, even if the 
comments are intended to compliment; 
2. Making obscene gestures or noises;  
3. Repeatedly asking someone on a date after an initial invitation is declined; 
4. Stalking (including cyber stalking);  
5. “Flashing” or exposing intimate body parts;  
6. Spreading malicious sexual rumors among other community members in a way that is likely 
to cause embarrassment or reputational damage;  
 
3 of 10 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy 
7. Disseminating written materials rating community members with respect to appearance or 
sexual performance, including providing written answers to questions or questionnaires 
created by others;  
8. Non-consensual observation, photographing, or recording of sexual activity or nudity;  
9. Non-consensual distribution or dissemination of photographs or recordings of sexual 
activity or nudity, including distribution or dissemination of photographs or recordings that 
were made consensually;  
10. Allowing a third party to observe sexual activity without the consent of all parties; and 
11. Prostituting or trafficking another person. 
 
F. 
“Retaliation” is defined as adverse action taken against an individual in response to, motivated 
by or in connection with an individual’s complaint of discrimination or discriminatory harassment, 
participation in an investigation of such complaint and/or opposition to discrimination or discriminatory 
harassment in the educational or workplace setting. 
 
IV.  
Policy Statement, Including the Policy Against Retaliation 
 
The University is committed to providing its employees, alumni, and students the opportunity to pursue 
excellence in their academic and professional endeavors. This opportunity can exist only when each 
member of our community is assured an atmosphere of mutual respect.  The University is committed 
to the enforcement of the Policy. Individuals who are found to have violated the Policy will be subject 
to the full range of sanctions, up to and including termination of their University affiliation. 
 
Retaliation against an individual who reports conduct that violates, or they suspect violates, the Policy 
is strictly prohibited.  Deliberately false and/or malicious accusations of discrimination, harassment, 
sexual misconduct, or retaliation—but not complaints which, even if erroneous, are made in good 
faith—are serious offenses and will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action. 
 
V. 
Reporting Violations or Suspected Violations of the Policy 
 
A. 
Students, faculty, staff, vendors and/or other visitors (including alumni) to the campus who 
believe that they have been subject to discrimination, harassment, sexual misconduct, or retaliation in 
violation of this Policy are encouraged to report, as soon as possible, their concerns. 
 
AUC provides several reporting channels: 
❖ Advocate (to report an incident where the respondent is a student) 
❖ AUC Ethics HelpLine (to report an incident where the respondent is not a student - Ethics 
Helpline also allows anonymous reporting). For more information about AUC Ethics Helpline, 
click here. 
❖ Contact Reem El-Mograby, director and Title IX coordinator, Office of Institutional Equity 
○ Email: equity@aucegypt.edu 
○ + 20.2.2615.2218 
  
B. 
Individuals who witness what they believe may be discrimination, harassment, sexual 
misconduct, or retaliation against another individual in violation of this Policy are encouraged to report 
their concerns as soon as possible as described in paragraph A above.  
 
C. 
Complaints and reports should be made as soon as possible after an incident.  
 
D. 
If a manager, supervisor, or faculty member who is not a confidential resource (as defined 
below) receives a report of discrimination, harassment, sexual misconduct, or retaliation prohibited by 
this Policy, they may not promise the reporter confidentiality and must contact the Title IX Coordinator 
or report the conduct through one of the reporting channel in paragraph A above.  
 
 
4 of 10 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy 
E. 
Anonymous Reporting. Individuals reporting through AUC Ethics HelpLine may do so 
anonymously, but are encouraged provide as much detailed information as possible to allow the Title 
IX Coordinator to investigate and respond as appropriate. The University may be limited in its ability 
to investigate an anonymous or third-party report unless sufficient information is provided. No 
disciplinary action will be imposed based solely upon an anonymous complaint that cannot be 
substantiated by other evidence.  
 
F. 
In addition to required campus reporting, reports may also be made to the Egyptian or other 
law enforcement officials, especially if a crime may be involved, and depending on where the conduct 
occurred. If someone is in immediate danger or is a victim of a crime, that person should call for the 
AUC Safety and Security Office at +20 226154444. Some acts of discrimination, harassment, sexual 
misconduct, and retaliation may also be crimes, such as sexual assault or stalking. Egyptian law 
enforcement may be able to assist with obtaining medical care, getting immediate law enforcement 
response and protection, connecting with victim advocate services and counseling support, initiating a 
criminal investigation as appropriate, and answering questions about the criminal process.  
 
G. 
Amnesty for drug or alcohol possession and consumption violations. The University will not 
pursue disciplinary action for improper use of alcohol or other drugs against an alleged victim of 
discrimination or harassment, or against another student who shares information as either a witness or 
as a reporter of discrimination and harassment, as long as the report is made in good faith.  
 
VI. 
Confidentiality and Confidential Resources 
 
A.  
Confidential Reporting.  If a victim of conduct that violates the Policy would like the details of 
an incident to be kept confidential, that person may speak with the University’s Security and Safety 
Office, Center for Student Wellbeing, or health service providers, who are considered confidential 
resources and are permitted by law to maintain confidentiality (except in cases of immediacy of threat 
or danger or abuse of a minor).  If a victim is unsure of a resource’s ability to maintain confidentiality, 
the victim is advised to ask them before talking to them. In all cases that a Complainant (individual who 
makes allegations of misconduct under the Policy) requests confidentiality, even if from a resource that 
is not listed as an aforementioned confidential resource, the University will give consideration to the 
Complainant with respect to how the complaint is pursued but reserves the right, when necessary to 
protect the community, to investigate and pursue a resolution when an alleged victim chooses not to 
initiate or participate in a formal complaint.  
B. 
Privacy. Complainants regardless of if anonymity or confidentiality is requested, are assured 
that reports will be treated in as a confidential manner as possible under the circumstances, within the 
bounds of the University's legal obligations to respond appropriately to any and all allegations of 
discrimination, harassment, sexual misconduct, and retaliation prohibited by the Policy. Complainants 
have the right to have complaints taken seriously by the University when formally reported, and to have 
those incidents investigated and properly resolved through these procedures. Formal reporting still 
affords reasonable privacy to the reporter, and only a small group of officials who need to know will be 
told. Information will be shared as necessary with investigator(s), witnesses, and the Respondent. The 
number of people with this knowledge will be kept as low as reasonably possible to preserve a 
Complainant and Respondent’s rights and privacy. 
 
VII.   Role of the Title IX Coordinator   
 
The Title IX Coordinator is charged with coordinating the University’s response to reports under the 
Policy. The Title IX Coordinator is a neutral party and does not serve as an advocate for either the 
Complainant or the Respondent. All complaints of violations of the Policy will be referred to the Title 
IX Coordinator. After receiving a complaint, the Title IX Coordinator will explain to both parties the 
informal and formal processes outlined below and the provisions for confidentiality. Where 
appropriate, the Title IX Coordinator will provide to both parties information on options for obtaining 
advocacy, medical and counseling services, and making criminal reports (where applicable), and will 
 
5 of 10 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy 
assist with providing information on other resources. The Title IX Coordinator will coordinate with 
other campus officials to take appropriate interim actions such as no contact orders, academic 
accommodations, and rearrangement of housing, academic, and work assignments. The Chief 
Compliance Officer or Title IX Coordinator may at times designate a trained staff member to take on 
this role as well.  
 
VIII.     Complaint Resolution Process. 
 
The University will respond to any alleged violation of the Policy that is reported using one of the 
methods described in Section V above.   
 
A.   
Informal Resolution.  Informal resolution is a possible alternative to the formal complaint 
resolution process if both the Complainant and the Respondent consent. As part of the intake process, 
the Title IX Coordinator will determine if informal resolution is appropriate based on the nature of the 
alleged misconduct. Sanctions/corrective actions are generally not pursued as the result of an informal 
resolution process, though the parties may agree to appropriate remedies. The Title IX Coordinator will 
keep records of any resolution that is reached. The University reserves the right to cancel informal 
resolution if sufficient evidence suggests a formal investigation or other sanctions or remedies may be 
necessary and appropriate. It is not necessary to pursue informal resolution first in order to make a 
formal complaint, and anyone participating in informal resolution can stop that process at any time and 
request to continue through the formal process. 
 
B.   
Formal Resolution.  
 
1.  Submitting a Complaint.  Any individual who believes that the Policy has been violated should 
submit a complaint using the process described in section V above.  Complaints that are not appropriate 
for informal resolution will be resolved using this formal complaint process.  
 
2.  Complaint Intake.  Following receipt of notice or a complaint, the Title IX Coordinator will normally, 
within five (5) business days, make an initial determination as to whether there is sufficient information 
to suggest that a Policy violation (including a pattern of misconduct, and/or a perceived threat of further 
harm to the community or any of its members) may exist. If there is sufficient information to suggest 
that  a Policy violation  exists, and  if informal resolution is not being pursued, an investigation will 
begin. 
 
During the intake process, personally identifiable information (name of Complainant, name of 
Respondent, etc.) may be initially withheld at the Complainant’s request. As part of the intake process, 
the Title IX Coordinator will conduct an initial review for any sign of a pattern of predation, violence, 
or threat. In circumstances involving serious danger to members of the community, the Title IX 
Coordinator may request additional information in an effort to ensure campus safety.   
 
3.   Interim Action.  The University may implement interim and/or protective actions upon notice of 
alleged discrimination, harassment, and/or retaliation. 
 
Interim actions include but are not limited to: no contact orders, no trespass notices, providing 
counseling and/or medical services, academic support, living arrangement adjustments, providing a 
campus escort, academic or work schedule and assignment accommodations, safety planning, and 
referral to campus and community resources. 
 
The University may suspend, on an interim basis, a student or student organization or place an employee 
on administrative leave pending the completion of the investigation and procedures. In cases in which 
an interim suspension or administrative leave is imposed, the student, student organization, or the 
employee will be given the opportunity to meet with an appropriate administrator prior to such action 
being imposed, or as soon thereafter as reasonably possible, to show cause why the action should not 
be implemented. Violation of interim provisions will be grounds for disciplinary action. 
 
6 of 10 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy 
 
During an interim suspension or administrative leave, a student, alumni, or employee may be denied 
access to University housing and/or the University campus, facilities, or events, either entirely or with 
specific application. As determined by the appropriate administrative officer, this restriction includes 
classes and/or all other University activities or privileges for which the individual might otherwise be 
eligible. At the discretion of the appropriate administrative officer, alternative coursework options may 
be pursued to ensure as minimal an impact as possible on the Respondent student. At the discretion of 
the appropriate administrative officer, alternative employment/work options may be pursued to ensure 
as minimal an impact as possible on the Respondent employee.  
 
4.  Notice of Charges.  The Title IX Coordinator or a trained designee will provide a written notice to 
the parties involved. If the Respondent is an employee (including faculty), the written notice may be 
communicated to the employee’s department head/director, Dean, Vice President, and/or President. If 
the Respondent is a vendor or a visitor, the written notice will be communicated to the responsible 
community member for the vendor or visitor. 
 
5.  Investigation.  After written notice of the allegations has been provided, the Title IX Coordinator or 
designee will gather information about the alleged violation. The gathering of information will be 
thorough, and will typically entail interviews with relevant parties and witnesses, and obtaining 
available evidence that can be physical, electronic, or documentary. Both the Complainant and the 
Respondent shall be permitted to submit documentary evidence for consideration, along with the names 
of witnesses they suggest be interviewed during the investigation. The Title IX Coordinator or designee 
will prepare a draft information packet upon completion of gathering information. The packet will not 
include any findings of responsibility/non-responsibility. The University aims to complete 
investigations within 60 days from incident report date, which can be extended as necessary for 
appropriate cause by the Title IX Coordinator, with notice to the parties. Investigation may take longer 
when initial complaints fail to provide direct first-hand information. The University may briefly delay 
its investigation when criminal charges are being investigated, but will ordinarily not do so for more 
than 10 days, except to comply with a reasonable request of law enforcement or a court order. 
Otherwise, University action will continue regardless of the status of civil or criminal charges involving 
the same incident. 
 
6.   Student Withdrawal/Absence While Charges Pending.  Should a Respondent student decide to 
withdraw from the University and/or refuse to participate in the investigation and/or hearing, the process 
will nonetheless proceed in the student’s absence to a resolution, and, if found to have committed a 
Policy violation, that student will not be considered for return to the University until any and all 
applicable sanctions have been satisfied. The Title IX Coordinator will continue to act to promptly and 
effectively to remedy the effects of the conduct upon the victim and the community. 
 
7.   Employee Resignation While Charges Pending.  Should a Respondent employee resign while 
charges are pending, the records of the Title IX Coordinator will reflect that status, and that information 
may also be disclosed in response to any future inquiries regarding employment references for that 
individual.  Should an employee decide to leave and not participate in the investigation and/or hearing, 
the process will nonetheless proceed in the employee’s absence to a resolution, and, if found to have 
committed a Policy violation, that employee will not be considered for return to the University unless 
any and all sanctions have been satisfied. The Title IX Coordinator will continue to act to promptly and 
effectively remedy the effects of the conduct upon the victim and the community.  
 
C.  Determination of Policy Violations and Sanctions. 
 
1.  For Complaints Against A Student.  Once the investigation packet is completed, the Title IX 
Coordinator will make it available for review by both the Complainant and Respondent, the Title IX 
Coordinator will decide whether a Policy violation occurred, applying a preponderance of the evidence 
standard. A finding of a Policy violation by a preponderance of the evidence means that it is more likely 
than not that the Policy violation occurred. If, following a hearing, the decision is that no Policy 
 
7 of 10 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy 
violation has occurred the process will end. Regardless of the outcome, both parties will be notified of 
the finding in writing. If the student is found to have violated the Policy, appropriate disciplinary 
sanctions will be determined by the Title IX Coordinator in consultation with other responsible entities 
on campus. The Title IX Coordinator will notify both parties in writing of the decision, including what 
sanctions are to be imposed in the event that a Policy violation was found. 
 
2.  For Complaints Against Employees (Staff and Faculty).  Upon receipt of the investigation packet, 
the Title IX Coordinator will make it available for review by both the Complainant and Respondent.  
After receiving any written responses, the Title IX Coordinator, in consultation with the University’s 
Chief Compliance Officer, will determine if the Policy has been violated by using a preponderance of 
the evidence standard. A finding of a Policy violation by a preponderance of the evidence means that it 
is more likely than not that the policy violation occurred. If the Title IX Coordinator decides that no 
policy violation has occurred, then the process will end. The Respondent’s department head/director, 
Dean, Vice President, and/or the President will also be notified of the decision that the Policy was not 
violated. 
 
In the event that the employee is found to have violated the Policy, the Vice President of the 
Respondent’s department or the Provost, in the case of faculty, will determine appropriate disciplinary 
sanctions based on a recommendation from the Title IX Coordinator in consultation with the Chief 
Compliance Officer. Regardless of the outcome, the Complainant and the Respondent will be notified 
in writing of the outcome within fifteen (15) business days of the date of the receipt of any written 
responses. The Respondent’s department head/director, Dean, Vice President, and/or the President may 
also be notified of the outcome. If the Vice President or the Provost served as a party or witness in the 
investigation, the Title IX Coordinator’s recommendation will be sent to the President for determination 
of disciplinary sanctions.  
 
3.  For Complaints Against Alumni/Vendor/Visitor.  Upon receipt of the investigation packet, the Title 
IX Coordinator will make it available for review by both the Complainant and Respondent. Both parties 
shall be permitted to respond to the investigation packet in writing within 15 days after reviewing the 
report, prior to a decision being rendered. After receiving any written responses, the Title IX 
Coordinator, in consultation with the University’s Chief Compliance Officer, will determine if the 
Policy has been violated by using a preponderance of the evidence standard. If the Title IX Coordinator 
decides that no policy violation has occurred, then the process will end. The Respondent and 
Complainant will notified of the outcome. 
 
In the event that the alumni/Vendor is found to have violated the Policy, the Title IX Coordinator in 
consultation with the Chief Compliance Officer will determine appropriate disciplinary sanctions.   
 
IX.   
Sanctions. 
 
Sanctions will be recommended by the Title IX Coordinator and forwarded to the decision-making 
authority as noted above.  Factors considered when determining a sanction may include: 
 
1. The nature of, severity of, and circumstances surrounding the violation; 
2. The Respondent’s disciplinary history; 
3. Previously founded complaints or allegations against the Respondent involving similar 
conduct; 
4. Any other information deemed relevant by the Title IX Coordinator; 
5. The need to bring an end to the discrimination, harassment, and/or retaliation; 
6. The need to prevent future recurrence of discrimination, harassment, and/or retaliation;  
7. The need to remedy the effects of the discrimination, harassment, and/or retaliation on the 
victim and the community; and/or 
8. Any mitigating factors. 
 
 
8 of 10 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy 
A.   Student Sanctions.  One or more of the following sanctions may be imposed upon a student who 
has been found responsible for a violation of the Policy. Sanctions will be proportionate to the severity 
of the violation and to the cumulative conduct history of the Respondent. Sanctions may include, but 
are not limited to, warnings, no-contact orders, restriction of privileges (such as holding office in student 
organization, representing the university at an official function or event), behavioral requirements 
(counseling, substance abuse, screening, etc.), parental notification, course load reduction, probation, 
suspension, and/or expulsion. 
 
B.   Employee Sanctions.  One or more of the following sanctions may be imposed upon an employee 
who has been found responsible for a violation of the Policy. Sanctions will be proportionate to the 
severity of the violation and to the cumulative conduct history of the Respondent. Sanctions for an 
employee who has violated this policy may include, but are not limited to, verbal or written warning, 
required counseling, training, demotion, reassignment, suspension with or without pay, and/or 
termination.  
 
C. 
Managers and supervisors, including faculty, are required to implement sanctions where, after 
completing the investigation, it is determined that sanctions are indicated.  The University 
administration is responsible for ensuring the consistent application of the Policy. 
 
D.  
Alumni/Vendor/Visitor Sanctions.  One or more of the following sanctions may be imposed 
upon an alumni/vendor/visitor who has been found responsible for a violation of the Policy. Sanctions 
will be proportionate to the severity of the violation and to the cumulative conduct history of the 
Respondent. Sanctions for an alumni/vendor/visitor who has violated this policy may include, but are 
not limited to, verbal or written warning, or suspension of access to the campus temporarily or 
permanently.   
 
E. 
Failure to Complete Sanctions.    All Respondents are expected to comply with conduct 
sanctions within the time frame specified in their written notice. Failure to follow through on sanctions 
by the date specified, whether by refusal, neglect, or any other reason, may result in additional sanctions.  
 
F. 
Remedial Actions.  Sanctions imposed for violations of this Policy may also include remedial 
action such as referral to counseling and health services, education to the community at large, altering 
the housing situation of a Respondent student or resident employee (or the Complainant, if desired), 
altering work arrangements, providing campus escorts, implementing contact limitations between the 
parties, or offering adjustments to academic deadlines and/or course schedules.  
 
X.    
Appeals. 
 
A. 
Appeals of a decision that the Policy was violated may be filed by the Complainant or the 
Respondent, or both. All requests for appeal considerations must be submitted in writing to the Title IX 
Coordinator within ten (10) business days of the date of the written notice informing the parties as to 
whether or not a Policy violation has been found.  Appeals are limited to allegations of the following: 
 
1.  A procedural error or omission that significantly impacted the outcome; or 
2.  New evidence, unknown or unavailable during the investigation, that could substantially impact 
the finding or sanction. A summary of this new evidence and its potential impact upon the 
investigation must be included in the appeal; or 
3. Severity of the sanction(s) imposed exceeds the nature of the Policy violation. 
 
B.   
The original finding and sanction/corrective actions will stand if the appeal is not timely or is 
not based on the grounds listed above. 
 
C.   
Timely student and employee (including faculty) appeals that comply with the foregoing rules  
will be reviewed by an Appeals Panel comprised of trained faculty and staff. 
 
 
9 of 10 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy 
D.   
The principles governing appeals include the following: 
1. Appeals are not intended to be full re-hearings of the complaint.  
2. Appeals are confined to a review of the written documentation or record of the original 
hearing and properly submitted evidence that was not previously considered. 
3. Imposition of sanctions on a student may be postponed by the Vice President for Student  Life 
or person designated by the President, as applicable, in consultation with  the Chief 
Compliance Officer and Title IX Coordinator, pending the outcome of the appeal, if 
postponement is appropriate in light of the basis of the appeal and the nature of the Policy 
violation.  
4. Interim and/or protective actions may be imposed and/or continued as appropriate, during the 
pendency of the appeal. 
5. Decision on the appeal will be rendered within fifteen (15) business days of submission, and 
forwarded to the Title IX Coordinator, who will provide written notice of the appeal to all 
parties within two to three business days from the date of the decision on the appeal.  The 
time for deciding an appeal may be extended with good cause. 
6. All parties should be informed of whether the grounds for an appeal are accepted and the 
results of the appeal decision in a timely manner. 
7. Once an appeal is decided, the outcome is final; further appeals are not permitted. 
 
XI. 
Statement of Rights for Complainants and Respondents 
 
Both Complainants and Respondents will be afforded the following rights under this policy: 
1. To be treated with respect by University officials 
2. To take advantage of campus support resources (such as Counseling Services and University 
Health Services for students, or Employee Assistant Program services for employees) 
3. To experience a safe educational and work environment 
4. To have an advisor (students) or representative (employees), so long as the advisor or 
representative is not legal counsel, during this process 
5. To refuse to have an allegation resolved through informal procedures 
6. To be free from retaliation 
7. To have complaints heard in substantial accordance with these procedures 
8. To reasonable and necessary participation in the process 
9. To be informed in writing of the outcome of the complaint and, where applicable, sanctions, 
and the rationale for the outcome 
 
XII.  
Records 
 
In implementing this policy, records of all complaints, resolutions, and hearings will be kept for seven 
(7) years after the complaints has been adjudicated and/or closed in the Office of the General Counsel. 
For complaints resulting in suspension/dismissal/termination from the University, records may be kept 
for a longer period in accordance with the University’s document retention policy. 
 
XIII. 
Revisions   
 
The Policy will be reviewed and updated regularly by the Title IX Coordinator. The Title IX 
Coordinator may make minor modifications to procedures that do not materially change the process. 
The Title IX Coordinator, with the assistance of the Office of General Counsel, may also vary 
procedures materially with notice (on the University’s policy website, with appropriate date of effect 
identified) upon determining that changes to law or regulation require policy or procedural alterations, 
or for other reasons. The procedural rules related to the adjudication of complaints in effect at the time 
adjudication will apply, even if they are changed after the alleged offense and before the adjudication. 
However, policies in effect at the time of the offense will apply even if the policy is changed prior to 
adjudication, unless the parties consent to be bound by the current policy or applicable law requires 
otherwise.  
 
10 of 10 
Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy 
 

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022 
  
AUC Acceptable Use Policy • Page 1 of 5  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: [ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY– October 2022]  
  
Approval date: [August 2018]  
  
Purpose of document:  
[The purpose of this policy is to outline the acceptable use of AUC IT resources at AUC. 
These rules are in place to protect the staff, faculty, students, and AUC community. 
Inappropriate use exposes AUC to risks, including information disclosure, virus 
attacks, compromise of network systems and services, and legal issues.]  
  
Office/department responsible: [Office of Information Security]  
Approved by: [Ms. Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer]  
  
Document classification level: [PUBLIC]  
  
Document accessible: [ https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]  
  
Document includes: [Policy]   
  
Related documents/see also: [ AUC Policies, 
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/universitypolicies]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
Acceptable Use Policy  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
This policy is a means of explaining the acceptable and non-acceptable behavior that the 
AUC community and users should adhere to when using AUC IT resources. Complying 
with this policy will help the AUC community to be more secure from an IT perspective as 
well as decreasing the risks associated with the usage of AUC IT resources.  
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
The purpose of this policy is to outline the acceptable use of AUC IT resources at AUC.  
These rules are in place to protect the staff, faculty, students, and AUC community. 
Inappropriate use exposes AUC to risks, including information disclosure, virus attacks, 
compromise of network systems and services, and legal issues.  
  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022 
  
AUC Acceptable Use Policy • Page 2 of 5  
  
Chief Technology Officer  
Ms. Nagwa Nicola  
  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
This policy applies to visitors, staff, faculty, students, alumni, contractors, consultants, 
temporaries, other workers, and any person who uses AUC IT resources at AUC, including 
all personnel affiliated with third parties. This policy applies to all equipment that is owned 
or leased by AUC and to any equipment that uses AUC IT resources. 
  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk Officer.  
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security. 
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an email to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
Definitions  
 
  
Term (alphabetical order)  
Definition as it relates to this policy  
AUC IT Resources  
Any IT services, IT equipment or  
any IT means of communication provided by  
AUC  
AUC Community  
This term refers to the AUC faculty, staff, Alumni and students 
or any person or entity that deals with AUC technology 
services  
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
1. AUC Staff and faculty should be aware that the data they create on the University 
systems remains the property of AUC.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022 
  
AUC Acceptable Use Policy • Page 3 of 5  
2. AUC will exercise and perform all feasible activities to govern information 
confidentiality but cannot guarantee the confidentiality of the information stored on any 
electronic device belonging to AUC.  
3. The Information Security Office recommends that any information that users consider 
sensitive or vulnerable be encrypted.   
4. For security and network maintenance purposes, authorized individuals within AUC 
may monitor equipment, systems, and network traffic at any time with permission from 
the Information Security Office.  
5. AUC reserves the right to audit IT resources on a periodic basis to ensure compliance 
with this policy.  
  
Security and Proprietary Information:  
  
1. Keep passwords secure and do not share accounts. Authorized users are responsible for 
the security of their passwords and accounts.  
2. All IT equipment should be secured with a password-protected auto-lock with the 
automatic activation feature set at 5 minutes or less or by logging off when the host will 
be unattended.  
3. As the information contained on portable computers, memory sticks, or any portable 
device storing sensitive information is especially vulnerable, special care should be 
exercised to keep this information secured.  
4. All IT equipment used by AUC contractors, guests, faculty, staff, and students that are 
connected to the AUC Network locally or remotely, whether owned by themselves or 
AUC, should have their computer software continually updated. Approved anti-
malware-scanning software with an updated database, Host Intrusion Prevention 
System and firewall software of this equipment must be constantly updated.  
5. Users must use extreme caution when browsing and opening email attachments or 
clicking on web links received from any sender as they may contain viruses, Trojans, 
or malicious programs.  
  
Unacceptable Use:  
  
The following activities are, in general, prohibited. AUC Personnel may be exempted from 
these restrictions during the course of their legitimate job responsibilities (e.g., systems 
administration staff may have a need to disable the network access of a host if that host is 
disrupting production services).  
  
Under no circumstances is a user authorized to engage in any activity that is illegal under local 
or international law while utilizing AUC-owned resources.   
  
The lists below are by no means exhaustive but attempt to provide a framework for activities 
which fall into the category of unacceptable use.  
  
The following activities are strictly prohibited, with no exceptions:  
  
1. Violations of the rights of any person or company protected by copyright, trade secret, 
patent or other intellectual property, confidentiality, or similar laws or regulations, 
including, but not limited to the installation or distribution of "pirated" or other software 
products that are not appropriately licensed for use by AUC.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022 
  
AUC Acceptable Use Policy • Page 4 of 5  
2. Unauthorized copying of copyrighted material including, but not limited to, digitization 
and distribution of photographs from magazines, books, or other copyrighted sources, 
copyrighted music, and the installation of any copyrighted software for which AUC or 
the end-user does not have an active license are strictly prohibited.  
3. Introduction of malicious programs into the network or servers (e.g., viruses, worms, 
Trojan horses, email bombs, hacking tools, etc.).  
4. Revealing your account password to others or allowing the use of your account 
credentials by others under any circumstances. This includes family and other 
household members when work is being done at home or in dorms/housing.  
5. Affecting trails for security breaches or disruptions of network communication. 
Security breaches include, but are not limited to, accessing data where the user is not 
the intended recipient or logging into a server or account that the user is not expressly 
authorized to access - unless these duties are within the scope of regular duties. For 
purposes of this section, "disruption" includes, but is not limited to, network sniffing, 
ping floods, spoofing, denial of service, and forged routing information for malicious 
purposes.  
6. Port scanning or security scanning is expressly prohibited unless prior authorization is 
secured from the Information Security Office.  
7. Executing any form of IT traffic monitoring which will intercept data not intended for 
the user's host unless this activity is a part of the user's normal job/duty.  
8. Circumventing user authentication or security of any host, network, or account.  
9. Interfering with or denying service to any host (for example, denial of service attack).  
10. Using any program/script/command, or sending messages of any kind, with the intent 
to interfere with, or disable, a user's terminal session, via any means, locally or via the 
Internet/Intranet/Extranet.  
11. Providing any information about or lists of the AUC community to parties outside AUC 
without prior approval from the Chief Technology Officer.  
12. Sending unsolicited email messages, including the sending of "junk mail" or other 
advertising material to individuals who did not specifically request such material (email 
spam).  
13. Any form of harassment via email, telephone, paging, or other electronic means, 
whether through language, frequency, or size of messages.  
14. Unauthorized use, or forging, of email header information.  
15. Solicitation of email for any other email address other than that of the poster's account, 
with the intent to harass or to collect replies.  
16. Posting the same or similar non-business-related messages to large numbers of 
recipients.  
17. Using AUC IT resources in a non-AUC business domain.  
18. Any use of Peer-to-Peer programs. (e.g.:edonkey, bittorrent, etc.). Kindly refer to the 
AUC Policy Banning Peer-To-Peer file sharing in accordance with The Higher 
Education Opportunity Act of 2008.  
19. Installation of any IT services/equipment without written assessment and approval from 
the Information Security Office.  
20. Spoofing/phishing of websites, emails, AUC services.  
21. Entering false or fake information on IT systems or resources.  
22. Unauthorized access to IT systems data centers and facilities.  
23. Performing any sort of reconnaissance, hacking, or penetration testing activities on any 
AUC IT resource.  
24. Bypassing or trials to bypass any blocked internal or external IT service or website.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022 
  
AUC Acceptable Use Policy • Page 5 of 5  
25. Abusive usage behavior for any IT service.  
  
Enforcement:  
  
Any user found to have violated this policy (or part thereof) may be subject to disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination of employment or dismissal from the University  
  
 
Forms/Instructions   
 
  
None  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Appendices (optional)  
 
  
None  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
 September 2012  
Last Amended Date:   June 15th, 2018  
Last Review Date:  
 October, 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October, 2025  
  

AUC Alumni ID Card and Conduct Policy 
 
 
Policy Statement 
 
AUC Alumni can obtain an alumni ID card through the office of Advancement and 
Communications. The alumni ID card allows access to AUC campuses and properties. As members 
of the AUC community, alumni continue to enjoy many AUC services. Alumni are subject to AUC 
policies while on AUC property or during participation in AUC events. Violation of AUC policy may 
result in removal from AUC property and/or temporary suspension of the alumni ID card.  
Consistent conduct unbecoming of a member of the AUC community or repeat offenders of AUC 
policy by alumni can result in permanent withdrawal of the alumni ID card.  
 
Reason for Policy 
 
The AUC Alumni ID Card and Conduct Policy serves to remind alumni of expectations for behavior 
as members of the AUC community and to document expected outcomes in the event of violation 
to University policies. 
 
Who Approved this Policy 
 
Vice President, Advancement and Communications 
Associate Vice President of Advancement  
Executive Director of Alumni Engagement and Annual Fund 
 
Who Needs to Know this Policy? 
 
AUC Alumni 
AUC Alumni Council members 
University Safety and Security office 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
 
 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: 
Raymonda Raif, executive director, alumni engagement and 
AUC fund programs 
 
Responsible University Office: 
Office of Advancement and Communications  
 
If you have questions about this policy 
1. Call Raymonda Raif at X2380 or email at monda@aucegypt.edu 
2. Call Manar Ayoub at X2388 or email at manara@aucegypt.edu 
 
 
 Policy 
 
Alumni ID Card Issuance 
AUC alumni ID cards are issued through the Office of Advancement and Communications during 
normal University business hours, as well as during most alumni events. During AUC’s centennial 
year (2019), the alumni ID card will be re-branded in celebration of AUC’s 100 years in Egypt and 
issued with a validity period of 5 years. The cost of the alumni ID card is EGP100. 
 
Campus Access 
Alumni should be familiar with AUC’s Campus Access policy which states, in part, that AUC is a 
private institution and access to its campuses, facilities, buildings and properties is permitted with 
AUC consent. AUC will always strive to protect the central educational purpose for which it was 
established, and must therefore conserve its resources, both physical and financial. The University 
reserves the right to determine who may enter its property and may refuse entry to any individual. 
 
Violation of University Policy 
AUC alumni are valued members of the AUC community. As such, alumni enjoy the benefits and 
services of community members and are subject to its collective policies. Violation of University 
policy will result in an investigation and possible sanctions determined by University safety and 
security officials, the executive director of alumni engagement and annual fund office, and an 
official from the University office having jurisdiction over the policy violated, if applicable. 
 
Alumni are subject to the wide array of possible fines and sanctions as any other member of the 
AUC community. When a violation occurs, the Office of Safety and Security issues a report of the 
violation and notifies the executive director for alumni engagement. First and minor violations 
may result in a warning letter issued to the alumnus/alumna. Repeat or serious offenses will 
trigger a thorough investigation by the University’s security office, the result of which will be 
reviewed by the executive director of alumni engagement and annual fund (or designee) and 
senior University administration. A substantial fine or temporary or permanent suspension of the 
alumni ID card may result. In the event of revocation of an alumni ID, the card’s validity will be 
nullified in the University’s system, prohibiting access to AUC property. 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: December 11, 2017 
Last Amended Date:  
Next Review Date:  
 

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2019 
 
AUC Policy Template • Page 1 of 7 
___________________________________________________________________________ 
Document title: AUC Backup Policy – October 2019 
 
Approval date: October 2019 
 
Purpose of document: This document is to illustrate the backup policy used at AUC for 
different systems upon agreement. It also includes details about how the backup is being 
taken, its schedule and the media used for that purpose. This policy is not fixed as it 
should be updated as backup internal procedures/ operations developed or changed 
 
Office/department responsible: Office of Information Technology – University 
Technology Infrastructure 
Approved by: Chief Technology Officer: Ms. Marwa Mansour 
 
Document classification level: RESTRICTED to AUC community 
 
___________________________________________________________________________ 
 
AUC backup policy 
 
Policy Statement 
 
To ensure users are aware of the backup policy used to govern the backup procedures and 
process for different applications on different systems. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
The purpose of this policy is to illustrate a string backup plan to cover different systems using 
standard procedures, which could be easily developed and enhanced. 
 
Who Approved This Policy 
 
Chief Technology Officer: Ms. Marwa Mansour 
Date: 1st of October, 2019 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
All systems and applications administrators in addition to the delegated admins, whose 
systems or application are being backed up. 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2019 
 
AUC Policy Template • Page 2 of 7 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
https://documents.aucegypt.edu/Docs/Policies/AUC%20Backup%20Policy%20and%20Proc
edures.pdf 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Mr. Ibrahim Galal, Associate Director, Systems & SAN 
 
Responsible University Office: University Technology Infrastructure (UTI) 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for this policy, you may:  
 
1. Call Ibrahim Galal Gaber at 26154830, or  
 
2. Send an e-mail to Ibrahim.Galal@aucegypt.edu 
 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
1. Introduction 
AUC has many critical applications that should be backed up on different layers so that it 
can be used in all cases of restore. 
2. Overview  
Systems & SAN is responsible for ensuring that mission critical applications and data are 
well preserved and protected against loss and destruction. Adequate backups allow data 
recovery when information technology systems or information has been destroyed by 
system malfunction or by accidental/intentional action. 
3. Scope 
This policy applies to all systems residing at AUC and managed by Office of Information 
Technology. 
4. Backup types and media 
4.1. Disk Library Backup 
- 
This type of backups can be taken through Network or Fiber connection. 
- 
Full or Incremental backups can be taken and it is considered the first layer of 
backup. 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2019 
 
AUC Policy Template • Page 3 of 7 
4.2. Recover Point 
The recover point is an appliance used to enable back-in-time replication between two 
sites, thus an online copy of SAN LUNs connected to critical applications’ servers could 
be done to secure such data. This is implemented between AUC and Vodafone. This 
kind of backup is used for disaster recovery plan. 
4.3. Tape Library 
The Tape Library will enable us to take backups offsite campus; which is requested by audit 
in some sensitive application. In addition, this media and type of backup provides longer 
period of retention. 
5. Backup Policy  
5.1. General 
- At least once a week all AUC critical systems and production data are fully backed up. 
- Other less critical systems/applications are fully backed up once monthly. 
- Backup of systems and data should take place at night away of the working hours. 
- Appropriate backup methods (i.e., full, incremental, or differential) should be employed 
daily in accordance with the allotted backup window. 
- Backup media must adhere to industry accepted backup technology standards, such as: 
 The media’s read/write capacity shall be rapid enough to permit the backup to be 
completed during the allotted time (i.e., before the start of the next business day 
 The media’s compressed capacity shall be large enough to hold the complete backup 
 The media should be readable after a minimum of 5 years in unattended storage. 
 Data compression algorithms may be used to minimize the volume of data on the backup 
medium. When compression is employed, the selected parameters and algorithms must 
be documented and observed during data restoration (decompression).  
5.2.  Backup Administrator Responsibilities 
Backup administrator is responsible for the following 
 Maintain backup media: check the storage for the backup whether it is disks or tapes. 
 Storing the backup tapes 
 Checking if the backup has been successfully taken. 
 Troubleshooting and managing backup failure. 
 Maintaining the backup log. 
5.3.  Verification of Backup Status 
The designated member of staff must check the backup status on the system first thing every 
morning and report any failures to the direct supervisor. 
The backup software has automatic verification, which checks data transfer, reports error if 
occur, immediately corrects those errors and verifies backup data store. 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2019 
 
AUC Policy Template • Page 4 of 7 
5.4.  Backup Log 
A Backup log could be automatically issued at any time by the backup software for 
reporting purposes, including status, which tapes are used and housekeeping of the backup 
system. Daily backup job sends mail notification in case of errors. 
5.5.  House-keeping of the Backup System 
Regular maintenance of the backup device is carried out to ensure it is kept in good working 
order. Cleaning tapes are used in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions.  LTO tape 
drives should be cleaned monthly or more often if the cleaning light is illuminated. 
5.6. Managing Backup Failure 
In the event of an unsuccessful backup, an email should be sent by the backup application 
to the backup administrator. The staff responsible for checking the backup must 
immediately do the following: 
1. Note any messages / information on the server monitor 
2. Report the failure to the practice manager 
3. Record the failure in the backup log and any actions taken as a result 
4. If the backup fails repeatedly, it may be necessary to perform a manual backup. This 
takes time, and must be performed when all users are logged out. 
5.7.  Storage of Backup Tapes 
 The backup tapes when removed from the tape library are stored securely in a locked 
fire-proof media case then is taken off-site by a specialized company; it is for now 
“EDS”. 
 At the same time, the tape deposited two weeks previously will be collected and 
returned to the tape library for reuse during the following week 
5.8. Management of Tapes 
Tapes are clearly labeled with a date plus name of client and used in strict rotation to 
ensure immediate identification of any problems with a specific tape. 
6. Backup Strategy 
6.1. Backup Information 
The below form should be filled for every system/application to be backed up 
Application 
 
Server Host Name 
 
Server IP Address 
 
Application Owner Name 
 
Application Owner Email 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2019 
 
AUC Policy Template • Page 5 of 7 
6.2. Backup schedule 
The following schedule lists each of the detailed backup procedures included in this backup 
and recovery plan. It also indicates the frequency and schedule for each backup and shows 
who is responsible for each backup.  
Every System/application backup requirements information should be filled individually in 
the following table. Thus, the appropriate backup schedule and frequency will be followed 
and this differs from application to another. 
 
Name/Id 
Name or identifier associated with the backup procedure 
File System Type 
Name(s) of the file system(s) included in this backup 
Operating System 
Defines the operating system that holds the data 
Level 
Such as "Full" or "Incremental" 
Frequency 
Such as "Daily" or "Weekly" or "When modified" 
Schedule 
Such as "Last Friday of the month" or "Monday" or "As 
required" 
Responsible 
Organization or individual responsible for the Data that is 
backed up 
6.3.   Backup Procedures 
The following report should include all backed up systems/applications in order to be able to 
track backup procedure executions. 
Name/ID 
Name or identifier associated with this backup procedure 
Description /Purpose 
Description or purpose of this backup, such as "Daily incremental 
backup of modified partitions" 
File System(s)  
Flat Files 
Database 
Name(s) of the file system(s) included in this backup 
Level 
Full 
Incremental 
Other (explain): 
Frequency (Cycle) 
Daily 
Weekdays 
Weekly 
Monthly 
Quarterly 
Annually 
When files are modified 
Other (explain): 
Retention 
_____ backup cycles (enter the number of cycles to retain) 
Forever 
Other (explain): 
Storage Location/ID 
Onsite 
Offsite 
Notes (describe storage identifier, storage location, storage vendor): 
Backup Medium 
Disk Library 
Other (describe): 
Procedures 
Detailed steps for executing the backup procedure, including login, file 
locations, executables to run, parameters to use, expected messages or 
results, verification of backup results 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2019 
 
AUC Policy Template • Page 6 of 7 
6.4. Backup Testing (drill) 
After taking backup, we should arrange for backup drill that will indicate the backup 
success and estimate time taken for the recovery. Random restore for each backup type 
should be conducted every month or at least quarterly.  
Drills must run using below process steps. 
- 
Send mail to application owner. 
- 
Restore date must be clear and known by application owner. 
- 
Backup engineer restores the VM or database as per owner request. 
- 
Application owner confirms restore status by mail.  
7. Recovery or Restoration Strategy 
Systems or data can be destroyed or corrupted in some cases due to errors, outages, or 
intentional disruptions. Sometimes only a specific file or file system must be recovered or 
restored from backups after an outage occur. Major outages or disruptions may require 
restoration of most or all of the files from backups. The following sections of this document 
describe procedures for both minor and major restorations of files from backups. 
7.1.  Recovery or Restoration of a particular file or file system 
In most cases, if a particular file or file system is corrupted or destroyed, only that file or file 
system needs to be restored from the Recover Point or Disk Library backups.  
7.2.  Recovery or Restoration after a Major Outage 
If a major outage, such an outage caused by a natural or manmade disaster occur, you may 
need to restore many or all of the files and file systems. Such major restorations requires 
proper timing and sequencing due to business priorities and file dependencies. This part is 
covered on the Disaster Recovery Plan for each application whether by using the Recover 
Point to switch to DR site or getting tapes from the offsite company to restore data from it. 
7.3. AUC data storage disaster recovery site & data replication  
(AUC DR @ Vodafone). 
For partial data disaster (data loss/corruption) on main site in any of the critical systems like: 
 SAP (AUC Main ERP system running on MSSQL Database). 
 Blackboard (AUC Learning Management System) 
 Virtual systems “the critical VMS all over campus departments”  
In such a case, any of these systems data could be restored back to a specific point in time 
using the Recover point appliance which provides a consistent data recovery. 
For continuous data protection (CDP), failover and failback technologies are used to move 
the workload from the Main site (AUC) to the Backup site. 
The following figure illustrates this link between AUC and Vodafone 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2019 
 
AUC Policy Template • Page 7 of 7 
 
A new disaster recovery infrastructure is being studied to move AUC DR to the cloud using 
Microsoft Azure or Amazon web services (AWS). This provides AUC with better cost 
effective disaster recovery plan for optimum sustainable operations.  
 
Forms/Instructions  
 
N/A 
 
Related Information  
 
N/A 
 
Appendices (optional) 
 
N/A 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: January, 1, 2014 
Last Amended Date: October, 1, 2019 
Next Review Date: May, 4, 2020 

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
___________________________________________________________________________ 
Document title: AUC Data Governance Policy 
 
Approval date: October 2022 
 
Purpose of document:  
 
The Data Governance Policy manages the quality, consistency, usability, security, 
accessibility, and availability of administrative data. It covers staff, policies, processes, best 
practices, awareness and technologies required to manage the university’s administrative 
data. The main objectives of Data Governance include defining data owners, roles, 
responsibilities and accountabilities, enforcing conformance to data policies, standards, and 
procedures and resolving data related issues. 
 
Office/department responsible: Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness 
(SMIE) 
Approved by: Dr. Sherif Kamel, Vice President for Information Management Document 
 
Document classification level: PUBLIC 
 
Document accessible: https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
 
Document includes:  
Data Governance Policy  
Appendix A: Data Management Roles and Responsibilities 
Appendix B: List of Sample Data Sources  
Appendix C: Training and Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
Data Governance 
 
Policy Statement 
 
Data Governance manages the quality, consistency, usability, security, accessibility, and availability 
of administrative data. This governance covers staff, policies, processes, best practices, awareness and 
technologies required to manage the university’s administrative data as an institutional asset, and 
focuses on university administrative data maintained by administrative and academic offices. 
. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
The main objectives of the University Data Governance Policy include: 
 
1. To define data owners, roles, responsibilities and accountabilities. 
2. To define, approve, and communicate data strategies, policies, standards, procedures, and metrics. 
3. To track and enforce conformance to data policies, standards, and procedures. 
4. To manage and resolve data related issues. 
5. To understand and promote the value of data assets. 
6. To reduce university risk by maintaining quality data. 
 
Who Approved This Policy 
Dr. Sherif Kamel, Vice President for Information Management Document, March 2017 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
Entire AUC community. 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
Please list the location on the university’s website where this policy is located.  
 
Contacts 
Responsible University Office:  Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure about Data Governance Policy, you 
may:  
1. Call Nancy El Mahallawy at 26152239, or  
2. Send an e-mail to nancy.alaa@aucegypt.edu  
 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: 
October 31, 2016 
Last Amended Date: October 5, 2022  
Next Review Date: 
October 31, 2025
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
 
 
The American University in Cairo 
Data Governance 
 
INTRODUCTION 
The American University in Cairo administrative data is a mission critical institutional asset that must 
be adequately used in support of evidence-based decision-making.  The Office of Strategy Management 
and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) is the focal point for administering, supporting, and promoting 
this activity. Data Governance manages the quality, consistency, usability, security, accessibility, and 
availability of administrative data. This governance covers staff, policies, processes, best practices, 
awareness and technologies required to manage the university’s administrative data as an institutional 
asset, and focuses on university administrative data maintained by administrative and academic offices.  
 
OBJECTIVES 
The main objectives of the University Data Governance Policy include: 
 
1. To define data owners, roles, responsibilities and accountabilities. 
2. To define, approve, and communicate data strategies, policies, standards, procedures, and 
metrics. 
3. To track and enforce conformance to data policies, standards, and procedures. 
4. To manage and resolve data related issues. 
5. To understand and promote the value of data assets. 
6. To reduce university risk by maintaining quality data. 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
 
Data Governance Policy 
POLICY 
This policy is concerned with University Administrative Data. Such data is owned by The American 
University in Cairo.  All members of the University community are responsible for appropriately and 
objectively using, as well as safeguarding such data.  This policy establishes uniform data management 
standards for Administrative Data, and identifies the shared responsibilities for assuring the following:  
 
1. The integrity of Administrative Data. 
2. That Administrative Data efficiently and effectively serve the needs of the University. 
3. The presence of, and conformance to a uniform set of definitions for commonly used data 
across the university, wherever applicable. 
4. Confidentiality and privacy of Administrative Data. 
5. Meeting compliance and regulatory requirements. 
6. The reporting of actual or suspected cases of breach of information security 
(confidentiality, integrity, or availability), to the office of Information Security for 
due handling.  
 
This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. It is owned by the office of Strategy Management 
and Institutional Effectiveness. 
SCOPE OF THE POLICY 
This policy applies to: 
 
1. All employees, supervisors and managers whose job responsibilities include updating, 
safeguarding, extracting, or usage of Administrative Data. 
2. The University as a whole including but not limited to, all of its campuses, schools, units, 
centers and administrative departments. 
3. All Administrative Data of all kind regardless of means or location of storage. This policy 
applies to Source Data Systems and Administrative Data extracted from those Source Data 
Systems, as well as data stored in any data repository. 
 
Individuals affected by this policy include all data management roles of institutional data, information 
and knowledge including, but not limited to, the list available in Appendix B.   
 
A. GUIDING PRINCIPLES 
1. The Office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) is responsible for 
promoting and enforcing this policy, in collaboration with other offices on an as-needed basis.  
The office of Information Security of the University is responsible for proactively coordinating 
with SMIE with regards to all aspects of Information Security pertaining to this governance 
document. 
2. In order for the University to effectively manage and safeguard its Administrative Data, 
procedures must be in place to guide its appropriate access, to ensure its security, and to provide 
a means to address procedural exceptions.  It is necessary for all employees who deal with 
Administrative Data to be trained and informed about data security.  
3. Role definitions of individuals with data responsibilities are necessary to support data integrity 
and security.  
4. Sharing Administrative Data within the University should be facilitated where appropriate, 
subject to appropriate security restrictions as established by each Data Domain Trustee and 
ratified by the Data Trustees. 
5. Implementation of this policy will reinforce a uniform set of definitions for commonly used 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
 
data across the university when possible (e.g., “enrolled student” should have the same 
meaning throughout the University). 
6. Integration of Administrative Data across the University should be encouraged to foster 
data accuracy and uniformity. This should result in reduced duplication of data and greater 
data accuracy. 
7. Administrative Data should be safeguarded to maintain the confidentiality and privacy of 
personally identified information. 
 
B. DATA ADMINISTRATION 
1. University Ownership of Administrative Data  
All Administrative Data is owned by The American University in Cairo.  As such, all members of 
the University have the obligation to appropriately use and safeguard the asset, in all formats and 
in all locations. 
 
2. Stewardship  
Roles and responsibilities for safeguarding and classifying the Administrative Data asset are 
defined below in section C, Data Management Roles and Responsibilities. 
 
3. Information Classification  
Administrative Data is categorized and retained as per the University related policy. 
 
4. Access, Security and Confidentiality  
a) Access to institutional data is granted internally based on an institutional need-to-know-basis to 
support institutional decision-making.  Employees are granted access to institutional data needed 
to perform their duties by virtue of their position at the University.  Authorization for access to 
data is not transferable. Access to data is granted only after a Confidentiality Agreement is signed 
by the person obtaining access. 
b) Proper, business friendly and accepted secure access tools and mediums must be in place and 
deployed regardless of the data representation form, these tools and mediums need to be 
approved by both the Data Steward and the office of Information Security.  
c) Data Disposal mechanisms need to be executed securely as well as Data mediums disposal 
(Example: Hard Disks, Servers…etc.) as per the agreement of the relevant Data Steward, Data 
Custodian and the office of Information Security. 
d) Data Domain Trustees, Internal Auditor, Legal Affairs, the office of Information Security and 
the office of SMIE reserve the right to audit and review activities of all users and administrators 
of any Data Source system. 
e) In case of any access violation, intentional record tampering, breach of confidentiality, or similar 
suspicious activities whether actual or suspected, such incidents must be reported to the office of 
Information Security for due handling. 
f) Data Trustees are responsible for granting access to Institutional Data, defining and 
implementing the standard procedures for requesting and approving access to Institutional Data 
irrespective of the type of the data.  All procedures should include adequate tracking for requests 
and approvals such that authorized access to Institutional Data is auditable. 
g) For information that is not accessible to the requesting user as per the University Information 
Classification Policy, granting access is contingent on the signature of a standardized 
Confidentiality Agreement for all users at all levels of the institution.  Data custodians are 
responsible for enforcing this process.  The office of Strategy Management and Institutional 
Effectiveness (SMIE) will make available a Confidentiality Agreement for such purposes (in 
collaboration with relevant offices of the University). 
h) The office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) has the right to 
inquire and request access to all sorts and forms of institutional data. SMIE has the right to all 
operations related to institutional data, data standards, data definitions and governance; inquire, 
extract, collect, analyze, disseminate, report, quality check and disclose data.  In case the access 
requires signing a Confidentiality Agreement, the same requirements applicable to data Stewards 
should be extended to SMIE staff and systems.  Upon formally requesting inquiry about, or 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
 
access to data, the office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) must 
obtain access to their requested data, or response to their inquiry within two business days from 
the initiation of the formal request. In the case where SMIE is unable to have their request 
fulfilled within reasonable time beyond the two business days, SMIE has the right to arbitrate 
the case with the VP/Chief Digital Officer (or equivalent role), who will have final decision as 
relates to the request being made, or arbitration will be done including the corresponding area 
head along with the responsible senior administrator at the University cabinet level.  
i) Institutional data must be stored in such a way as to ensure that the data is secure, and covered 
by a Disaster Recovery Plan developed and/or approved by the office of Information Security 
and other concerned units.  Data custodians must ensure that passwords and other security 
mechanisms are used, and that access is limited to authorized users. 
j) Users are responsible for protecting the data they have access to against making misinformed or 
incorrect interpretations of data or misrepresentations of information.  Data users must not 
knowingly falsify, delete or change data without providing sufficient justification and securing 
necessary approvals. 
k) Access to institutional data is granted externally when release of such data would not violate the 
university's policies.  External access should be governed by contractual agreement and approved 
by the University Legal Advisor and the VP/Chief Digital Officer (or equivalent role). External 
users should sign a Confidentiality Agreement.  
l) The University office of Information Security is responsible for working closely with the various 
stakeholders to promote security expectations listed herein this document.   
In order that the proper controls are applied, it is the responsibility of each person accessing 
Administrative Data to: (a) know the classification of the system being used, (b) know the type of 
Administrative Data being used, (c) follow the appropriate security measures, and (d) consult the 
related policies for further information.  It is their right to also be duly trained with respect to aspects 
listed herein. 
 
5. Training   
Before an individual is permitted access to Administrative Data in any form, training on the use 
and attributes of the data, functional area data policies, and University policies regarding data is 
required. For users with current access, and who have not received prior training, SMIE will 
communicate the need, and scope of training to relevant offices of the University. The Data Domain 
Trustees shall establish the appropriate levels of training for all such individuals within their units. 
The training will be recurrent based on needs and requirements. SMIE will coordinate regular data 
governance awareness campaigns to the University community. 
 
6. Integrity, Validation, and Correction  
Administrative Data must be safeguarded and managed in all formats and media (e.g., print and 
digital), at all points of access, and across all University systems through coordinated efforts and 
shared responsibilities.  Each Data Trustee, in conjunction with the appropriate Data Domain 
Trustee, shall be responsible for developing a plan for their functional area to assess the risk of 
erroneous or inconsistent data and indicate how such Administrative Data, if found, will be 
corrected.  The office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) will be 
responsible for ensuring that each functional area develops a plan according to expectation, and 
uses that plan to develop and implement processes for identifying and correcting erroneous or 
inconsistent data. Disputes between SMIE and any other University office with respect to planning 
will be reported to the VP/Chief Digital Officer (or equivalent role) for arbitration, and for the 
appropriate decision to be taken. 
 
7. Extraction, Manipulation, and Reporting  
Extraction, manipulation, and reporting of Administrative Data must be done only for University 
business purposes, or subject to terms of use as otherwise approved by the Data Trustee Committee. 
Personal use of Administrative Data, in any format and at any location, is prohibited except with 
the prior written approval of SMIE.  The office of Strategy Management and Institutional 
Effectiveness (SMIE) is the sole entity responsible for official reporting of institutional data, 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
 
information, knowledge or analytics needed for institutional decision making.  Where data extracted 
or reported cannot be reconciled with the official institutional data, it cannot be considered official 
institutional data or presented as such.  All units reserve the right to extract and analyze operational 
information to serve their business needs.  Any representation of the data or information in the form 
of reports, web pages, paper documents, other forms will include a disclaimer that indicates that the 
data or information are not official institutional data. 
 
C. DATA MANAGEMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
Data management roles with responsibilities are outlined below.  Refer to Appendix A for specific 
details. 
  
1. Data Trustee  
Data Trustees are senior University officials (typically at the level of Vice President, Provost or 
higher) who have planning and policy-making responsibilities for Administrative Data and for the 
establishment of operational processes to collect and record data in accordance with University 
business rules.  The Data Trustees, as a group, are responsible for overseeing the establishment of 
Administrative Data management policies and procedures, and for the assignment of data 
management accountability. 
 
• 
Oversee the establishment of data management policies and processes. 
• 
Assign Data Stewards and Data Domain Trustees. 
• 
Serve as an escalation point for problem/policy resolution. 
• 
Approve the Business Continuity and Disaster recovery deliverables (Example: maximum 
data loss in case of disasters and maximum tolerable time without data availability…etc.). 
• 
Approve record retention and archiving guidelines in accordance with the University 
business needs and legal regulations. 
• 
Authorize Data change hold in case of legal/audit related data freeze requests. 
 
2. Data Domain Trustee  
Data Domain Trustees are senior managers in operational areas responsible for maintaining the 
content of Transactional Systems.  The Data Domain Trustees implement policy as established by 
Data Trustees, assign Data Stewards, and serve as the first escalation point for problem/policy 
resolution from the Data Stewards. 
 
3. Data Steward  
Data Stewards are typically operational managers in a functional area with day-to-day 
responsibilities for managing business processes and establishing the business rules for the 
Transactional Systems.  Data Stewards are appointed by the respective Data Domain Trustees. 
 
• 
Certify data deposited in the warehouse. 
• 
Certify standard reports and dashboards. 
• 
Oversee the resolution of data errors. 
• 
Participate in establishing common definitions. 
• 
Assist in collecting and recording metadata. 
• 
Establish and manage policy for record retention and archiving. 
• 
Suggest and implement proper security controls. 
 
4. Data User  
Data Users are individuals who access Administrative Data to perform their assigned duties.  Data 
Users are responsible for safeguarding their access privileges, for the use of the Administrative 
Data in conformity with all applicable University policies, and for securing such data. 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
 
5. Data Custodian  
The Data Custodians are information technology staff assigned to each ERP system which 
maintains Administrative Data.  Data Custodians oversee the safe transport and storage of data, 
establish and maintain the source data systems, and perform activities required to keep the data 
intact and available to users. 
 
In addition, Data Custodians are responsible for working with Data Stewards and the office of 
Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) to develop automated processes 
which identify erroneous, inconsistent, or missing data and resolve data issues.  Their 
responsibilities include: 
• 
Establishing and maintaining the underlying source data systems. 
• 
Ensuring the accurate transfer of data into the University Data Warehouse using 
automated validation and error management processes. 
• 
Performing activities required to keep the data intact and available to users. 
• 
Collaborating with the Decision Support Group and the Data Stewards to implement 
data transformations, resolve data issues, and manage system changes. 
• 
Developing the data governance infrastructure strategy, including policies, roles, 
responsibilities and processes. 
• 
Works with Information Security to establish proper security controls. 
 
 
6. Office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) 
The office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) is responsible for 
data, information or knowledge used in official reporting.  This includes, but is not limited 
to, generate all official institutional reporting of data, information, knowledge and analytics, 
to internal and external entities on behalf of the University, working with the appropriate 
Data Stewards to develop standard definitions of commonly used terms; define how official 
University metrics are calculated; work to discover data discrepancies, inconsistencies and 
gaps and will promptly report such to the appropriate Data Steward for resolution.   
 
 
7. IT Planning and Governance Committee  
The IT Planning and Governance Committee is the focal point for discussion and decision 
support for all aspects of information and information technology governance within the 
business ecosystem of the university. The Committee oversees that information technology 
resources are planned, managed and executed effectively with all stakeholders’ interests taken 
into account to support AUC in fulfilling its strategic direction The Committee ensures that 
IT projects and initiatives abide by Information Security and Data Governance standards and 
regulations 
 
 
8. Office of Information Security 
The office of Information Security is responsible for all technical access and security logs, 
audit trails, authentication logs, traffic flows evidence, data access evidence, etc. for all AUC 
digital services and data sources.  The office is also responsible for related security based 
analysis, evidence collection, correlation and reporting. The office of Information Security 
works with Data Stewards and Data Custodians to ensure that proper security controls, change 
audit logs, secure access procedures are in place.  This office will proactively work with 
relevant entities to promote and enforce its reasonable expectations regarding Information 
Security. 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
 
Appendix A: Data Management Roles and Responsibilities 
 
Data Type 
Data Trustee 
Data Domain Trustee 
Data Steward 
Students Recruitment Data  
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Strategic Enrollment 
Management 
Associate Provost for Strategic Enrollment 
Management 
Students Admission Data 
(Undergraduate) 
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Strategic Enrollment 
Management 
Associate Provost for Strategic Enrollment 
Management 
Students Registration Data 
The Provost 
University Registrar 
International Students 
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Strategic Enrollment 
Management  
Director of International Programs Office (IPO) 
Students Admission Data 
(Graduate) 
The Provost 
Dean of Graduate Studies 
Director of Graduate Admissions 
Students Graduate Fellowships The Provost 
Dean of Graduate Studies 
  
Students Financial Assistance 
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Strategic Enrollment 
Management 
Executive Director, Student Financial Affairs & 
Scholarships 
Students Athletics Data 
The Provost 
Dean of students  
Senior Director of Athletics   
Students Activities Data 
The Provost 
Dean of students  
Senior Director, Office of Student Life 
International Students 
The Provost 
Dean of students  
Senior Director Office of Student Life 
Student Housing 
The Provost 
Dean of students  
Senior Director, Residential Life  
Students Financial Affairs Data VP for Finance and CFO  
University Financial Controller  
Director Student Accounting  
Student Library Records 
The Provost 
Dean of Libraries and Learning 
Technologies   
Director of Library Automation Systems 
School of Continued Education 
Data 
The Provost 
Dean of School of Continuing Education 
Executive Director, Strategic Management 
Course Catalog, Schedule, 
Faculty Assignment 
The Provost 
University Registrar 
Full Time Faculty Data  
The Provost 
The Provost 
Faculty Affairs 
Faculty Housing 
VP for Management and 
Operations  
Sr. Dir, Faculty Housing & Transport. Services.  
Staff 
The President  
Senior AVP for Human Resources  
Senior Director, HR Business Partner- Academic  
Part Time Faculty   
The President  
Senior AVP for Human Resources  
Director, HR Faculty Operations  
Internal Research Data 
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Research AP-RIC 
Finance (Budget) 
VP for Finance and CFO  
Chief Budget & Fin. Planning Officer  
Finance (Endowment, Financial 
Statements) 
VP for Finance and CFO  
University Financial Controller  
Director, Financial Analysis & Reporting  
Employability 
The Provost  
Executive Director of Career Center 
Alumni 
VP for Advancement & Americas  Executive Director, Alumni  
Communications_ 
VP for Marketing, 
Communications & Public Affairs 
Executive Director for Communications  
Energy/Water Consumption 
VP for Management and  
Operations 
Executive Director, Integrated Services  
Sustainability Director  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
 
Appendix B: List of Sample Data Sources  
Student Information System 
Banner Student 
Administrative System 
SAP 
Resource Allocation System 
AdAstra 
Career Services System 
Career Web 
Research Systems 
SciVal 
Faculty Systems 
eRepertoire 
Alumni and Fund Raising Systems 
Sales Force 
Process and Work Flow Systems 
Axiom and Perceptive 
Rare Books and Special Collections Digital Library 
OCLC CONTENTdm 
System 
Archival Description System 
ArchiveSpace 
Web Archiving System 
Archivelt 
Library Systems 
Sierra 
All other systems and data sources 
 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
 
Appendix C: Training and Development 
Student Information System 
Banner Student 
Office of Strategy Management and 
Institutional Effectiveness 
Administrative System 
SAP 
HR Module: Office of Human Resources 
 
Budget Module: Office of Budget and 
Financial Planning 
 
Supply Chain Module: Office of Supply 
Chain Management 
 
Financial Module: Office of the 
Controller 
Resource Allocation System 
AdAstra 
Office of University Information 
Systems 
Career Services System 
Career Web 
Office of Career Services 
Research Systems 
SciVal 
  
Faculty Systems 
eRepertoire 
  
Alumni and Fund Raising 
Systems 
Sales Force 
Alumni Office 
Process and Work Flow 
Systems 
Axiom and 
LaserFiche 
Office of University Information 
Systems 
Survey Systems and/or any 
survey related data/sources 
  
Office of Strategy Management and 
Institutional Effectiveness 
Planning, Assessment and 
Accreditation Systems 
Compliance Assist 
Office of Strategy Management and 
Institutional Effectiveness 
Archiving Systems 
AUC DAR, OCLC 
CONTENTdm, 
ArchiveSpace, 
ArchiveIT 
Rare Books and Special Collections 
Library 
Library Automation System  
Sierra 
Library Automation Systems 
All other systems and data 
sources 
  
  
 
 
 
 

 
Page 1 of 8 
 
 
 
Policy Title 
Academic Accommodations for AUC Students 
with Disabilities 
Responsible University Officer: 
Senior Director, Center for Student Wellbeing 
Policy Owner: 
  Office of the Dean of Students 
Pertinent Dates: 
Origination Date: Spring 2018 
Last Review Date: December, 2023 
 
 
 
I. 
SCOPE OF POLICY 
 
This Academic Accommodations for AUC Students with Disabilities Policy (“Policy”) governs academic 
accommodations for students with disabilities. All American University in Cairo (“AUC”) community 
members must abide by this Policy. 
 
 
II. 
DEFINITIONS 
 
Term 
Definition  
Disability 
 
A person who has a physical or mental impairment 
that substantially limits one or more major life 
activities.  Such impairments may include physical, 
sensory, and cognitive or intellectual impairments. 
Mental health conditions (psychiatric or 
psychosocial disability), and various types of chronic 
health conditions leading to an impairment may also 
be considered qualifying disabilities. A disability may 
occur during a person’s lifetime, or may be present 
from birth. Disability can be permanent or short-
term. 
Reasonable accommodations 
Any reasonable adjustment required for a student to 
have equal access to the AUC’s programs and 
activities.  
Student 
All admitted students, regardless of whether they are 
degree-seeking or non-degree seeking, 
 
Page 2 of 8 
 
undergraduate and graduate, full- or part-time 
student. 
Student Accessibility Services (“SAS”) 
A unit under the Center for Student Well-being in 
the Office of the Dean of Students. 
 
 
III. 
POLICY STATEMENT 
 
AUC is committed to create an inclusive culture that celebrates Disability as an area of diversity while 
providing equitable experiences for all students. Student Accessibility Services (SAS) proactively removes 
barriers, raises awareness of equitable practices, and fosters an appreciation of Disability as an area of 
diversity while utilizing a wide range of approaches from universal design to individualized accommodations.  
 
IV. 
POLICY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES 
 
1. Requesting Accommodations 
 
AUC is committed to providing students with disabilities equal access to the educational opportunities and 
programs available at AUC. AUC provides students with reasonable accommodations in a timely manner 
when such accommodations are necessary to access AUC programs or activities. Activities can include, but 
are not limited to, assistance setting up class field trips, joining AUC clubs, or attending on-campus events 
(Students can approach SAS to request individualized support with accessibility needs).  
Admitted, but not enrolled, students are eligible to request support services from SAS by emailing SAS after 
receiving their official AUC acceptance letter. Decisions will be made on a case-by-case basis.  
Students should submit all accommodation requests to SAS through ACCESS. SAS uses an interactive 
process of consulting with the student, and meets with each student to determine whether and what 
accommodations can be made to allow students with disabilities to participate in AUC programs and 
activities, and to continue to participate in and benefit from AUC programs and activities while receiving 
treatment for health conditions. In some cases, an outside consultant is engaged to review the student’s 
documentation as well. SAS communicates with the student about its decisions throughout the process. 
AUC can only provide reasonable accommodations under this Policy when a student establishes their 
disability, or has a record of a qualifying Disability and the need for such accommodations. Therefore, 
retroactive requests for adjusting past performance/grade as a result of an undisclosed Disability will not be 
considered. AUC cannot provide accommodations for a student who is not registered with SAS.  
 
Students requesting academic accommodations must register with SAS; participate in an intake interview; and 
submit current documentation as required. SAS staff utilize an interactive review process to determine 
necessary accommodations. Students are required to follow SAS’s procedures for requesting and maintaining 
accommodations as outlined below. 
a)    
Contact SAS to schedule an appointment, and complete the necessary Forms; 
 
Page 3 of 8 
 
b)   
Submit/Upload documentation; 
c)    
Meet with SAS staff for an intake interview; where a decision of an accommodation letter will be 
concluded; 
d)   
Sign Acceptance of Services/Consent Form for approved accommodations so the letters could be 
sent to faculty members; 
e)    
Complete a Semester Renewal Request each semester via ACCESS.  
Note*: Academic accommodations due to a disability cannot be given by faculty members, or any 
other party without prior written approval from SAS and receiving the accommodation letters. 
A.  Contact SAS and Complete Forms 
Students requesting accommodations must contact SAS by emailing sds@aucegypt.edu and complete the 
Accommodation Request Form (and the Disability Eligibility Form if needed) in order to identify the 
Disability and requested accommodations. 
B.  Submit Documentation 
Students must submit documentation that establish the presence of a disability, identify the functional impact, 
and explain the link between the functional impact and the need for the requested accommodations. 
C.  Intake Interview 
Students must meet with an SAS coordinator or staff member to provide information on their academic 
experience and any other pertinent information. Approved accommodations will be finalized after this 
meeting. 
D.  Sign Acceptance of Services/Consent Form 
SAS will request that the student signs an “Acceptance of Services/Consent” Form to document the 
accommodations and will, thereafter, authorize the accommodations to be sent to faculty to be implemented. 
E.  Complete the Semester Renewal Request 
Every student is responsible for completing a semester renewal request at the beginning of every semester. 
The Semester Request is made through ACCESS and should be completed as soon as the student has 
finalized his/her semester courses or by the end of the drop/add period. Students must follow the 
procedures outlined to allow SAS to review and approve requests so letters could be sent to faculty. Note that 
for some disabilities, semester renewal is not granted automatically, and the student could be asked to submit 
updated medical reports or documentation which demonstrate the persistence of the Disability and how it is 
impairing functioning. 
To submit a semester renewal request: 
i. 
Log into ACCESS using AUC email credentials. 
ii. 
On the menu column on the left, click on the “Accommodations” tab and select “Semester 
Request” 
iii. 
Click “Add New” and select the semester in question from the drop-down menu. 
iv. 
Click on “Submit for All Accommodations” to send the request to SAS. 
 
 
Page 4 of 8 
 
 
2. Notification of approved academic accommodations to instructors 
 
Upon completion of the Semester Request, SAS will review and approve the letters that are created by 
Semester Request and send an email to faculty that the accommodation letter is available for them to view 
and sign on ACCESS. It is important to note that preceptors and TA's will not receive the accommodation 
notification. Students can view and access their letters on ACCESS and can forward them on a need-to-
know basis to course staff who may be implementing accommodations.  
3. Arrangements for Academic Accommodations Implementation 
 
The faculty is primarily responsible for providing the academic accommodation(s) in testing situations, as this 
affords the instructor the opportunity to maintain academic control over the evaluation process. Specific 
arrangements may be handled by the instructor, preceptor or departmental administration. To ensure smooth 
implementation of testing accommodations, it is the responsibility of the student to communicate with the 
course instructors at least two weeks in advance to make arrangements for implementation. Timely 
notification allows instructors the opportunity to secure the appropriate venues to allow for extended test-
taking time or a reduced-distraction environment (this does not necessarily mean a private room). 
Arrangements may also need to be made for the use of a clean laptop, provided by SAS only when the 
student is taking their exam at the SAS Testing Unit. 
Providing appropriate accommodations is an iterative process. It is the student’s responsibility to contact SAS 
to talk about alternate or supplemental accommodations if they feel that the approved accommodations are 
not effective. 
Examples of reasonable accommodations that may be provided by SAS: 
(a) SAS testing unit for exams away from distractions; 
(b) Breaking assignments and projects into smaller tasks; 
(c) Extra time to complete exams and assignments; 
(d) Alternative exam and quiz formats; 
(e) Special seating arrangements and other adjustments in classroom environments; 
(f) Visual enhancements, such as magnified materials and textbooks; 
(g) Audio-taped lectures and Braille or electronic lecture notes and texts; 
(h) Verbal descriptions of visual aids and tactile models of graphic materials; 
(i) Braille lab signs and equipment labels, talking thermometers and calculators; 
(j) Computers with optical character readers, speech output, and braille screen display and equipped with 
JAWS (Windows screen reading software), Kurzweil 3000 (text to speech learning for Windows or Mac), and 
Dragon Naturally Speaking (speech to text voice recognition software); 
(k) Class assignments in electronic format with special input device (voice input, alternative keyboard); 
 
Page 5 of 8 
 
(l) Buddies to assist with mobility on campus, provide social and study skills support, and take lecture notes; 
(m) Scheduling support. 
4. Types of Disabilities 
 
The types of disabilities which may be considered for reasonable accommodation, when there is an 
impairment of functioning, include: 
 
(a) Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD)/Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), which can usually 
affect academic performance creating difficulties related to time management and organization, attention to 
detail, distractibility in the classroom, exam anxiety, sustaining attention when reading, writing and solving 
math problems.  
 
(b) Chronic health conditions, which may be related to such conditions as diabetes, epilepsy, multiple 
sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, renal disease/failure, and cancer;  
 
(c) Learning disabilities, that can be related to difficulties with reading and comprehension, solving 
mathematical problems, written and oral expression, listening skills, spelling, punctuation, grammar, visual 
and auditory processing, comprehension, and abstract reasoning; 
 
(d) Visual impairment that can result in difficulty in reading and writing, note-taking, responding to visual 
aids, and mobility around campus;  
 
(e) Hearing impairment, that can hinder listening to and understanding the content of lectures, taking notes in 
class, working effectively in group activities, and participating in class discussions;  
 
(f) Physical disabilities that can limit mobility around campus and in the classroom, taking notes in class, and 
finding appropriate seating in classrooms;  
 
(g) Psychological disorders, which can include depression, anxiety, and schizophrenia, only when impairing 
cognitive functions and negatively affecting the overall level of a student’s performance;  
 
(h) Other Disabilities, including but not limited to, speech impairment, autism spectrum disorders, cardiac 
conditions and severe allergies/respiratory conditions.  
 
5. Temporary Disabilities 
 
A temporary Disability is an impairment that is expected to last less than 6 months (e.g. broken arm or leg, 
recovering from complications post-surgery, sudden onset psychiatric manifestations, post COVID-19 
symptoms). SAS recognizes the need to provide accommodation services to students with temporary 
disabling conditions so that they can continue to make progress toward their degrees.  
 
With appropriate documentation from a licensed professional or physician verifying disability, students may 
qualify for specific temporary services, such as note taking, test accommodations, or cart service to facilitate 
transportation across campus. Services are determined on a case-by-case basis.  
 
Page 6 of 8 
 
In specific acute psychiatric cases, (Acute means sudden onset, short duration and not fitting into the criteria 
of chronic psychiatric disorders, thus falling under a temporary disability), in which documents have been 
approved by a consultant psychiatrist and SAS, the approved temporary services and accommodations must 
be strictly implemented by instructors, as these cases fall under the same mandates of the regular Disability 
services. 
Services and accommodations offered to students with verified temporary disabilities are subject to renewal 
timeframes set by SAS, typically at least once per semester.  
 
V. 
Confidentiality 
 
 
Individuals choose to self-identify as having a disability. A student seeking accommodations must register 
with SAS. SAS respects the sensitive nature of the disclosure and works to provide appropriate 
accommodations for students while maintaining the highest level of confidentiality possible. SAS will not 
disclose any information related to students with any third-party including faculty without the student’s 
consent. 
 
VI. 
Review of determinations regarding accommodation: Appeal Process 
 
A student who believes that SAS did not follow its procedures in the determination regarding an 
accommodation or consider relevant information during the process may request a reconsideration of the 
decision.  
In order to request reconsideration of a decision regarding an accommodation, the student should request a 
meeting with the head of (SAS) to present additional information and/or documentation and to discuss the 
nature of the issue or complaint. This meeting must be requested within fifteen (15) days of the determination 
at issue. In circumstances where there is a concern relating to denial of accommodations, SAS will engage an 
outside consultant to review the documentation and provide recommendations to SAS. The consultant may 
be faculty, administrators or professionals who can provide information pertinent to the case. If confidential 
information is to be released to or received by a third-party not affiliated with AUC, the student will be asked 
to sign a Release of Information Form. Following the review of the request for reconsideration, SAS will 
notify the student of its decision within ten (10) days after meeting with the student. 
If the issue is not resolved through reconsideration, the student may request a review of SAS’s process by the 
Dean of Students within ten (10) days of receiving SAS’s decision on reconsideration. The Dean of Students 
will make an inquiry into the complaint and may contact faculty, administrators or professionals that can 
provide information pertinent to the case and will contact the student in writing with a final decision 
regarding the reconsideration. The Office of the Dean of Students will notify the student of its decision 
within fifteen (15) days after receiving the student’s request for review of SAS’s process.  
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 8 
 
 
VII. 
Instructor Obligations and Responsibilities Regarding Academic Accommodations 
 
 
An instructor who receives an accommodation letter from SAS for a particular student should provide the 
accommodations required throughout the semester. An instructor shall not deny accommodations provided 
by SAS to the student or negotiate additions or reductions to those accommodations.   
 
If the letter requires that the instructor undergo a specific training exercise in order to enhance their ability to 
assist the student in question, the instructor must undergo the specified training.  
 
If accommodation instructions are unclear, it is the responsibility of the instructor to directly contact SAS by 
emailing sds@aucegypt.edu  
 
Instructors should provide guidance to all students requesting accommodations at the beginning of each 
semester through a statement in the syllabus.  
 
Ensure instructional materials are available in accessible formats. For further assistance with this process, 
instructors are encouraged to contact the Office of Tech Solutions' Assistive Technology Services by emailing 
assist.tech@aucegypt.edu 
 
 
VIII. Complaint Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution 
 
AUC is committed to ensuring that all students with verified disabilities have the opportunity to participate in 
educational programs and services on an equal basis. A student who believes that they have received 
inappropriate or inadequate services from instructors or other AUC personnel has the right to seek a review 
of such concerns. 
Complaints of an academic nature (including, but not limited to, refusal to sign SAS’s letter of 
accommodation, refusal to extend the student’s approved accommodations, or refusal to utilize tools and 
systems that provide equal access to learning and opportunity) and non-academic nature (including, but not 
limited to, refusal to provide equal access to facilities, services or activities), should be reported to: 
1. Student Accessibility Services (SAS) as a first-level intervention. SAS will reach out to the involved 
parties (student and/or faculty) to resolve the complaint; 
2. If a resolution is not achieved, SAS will report the complaint to CSW’s Senior Director as a second-
level intervention. The CSW’s Senior Director will reach out to the involved parties (student and/or 
faculty) to resolve the complaint. 
3. If a resolution is not achieved, CSW’s Senior Director will report the complaint to the Dean of 
Students as a third-level intervention, and the CSW’s Senior Director will report the resolution to the 
student in question. 
A student who has not achieved a satisfactory resolution may send a written formal complaint by email to the 
Dean of Students. The petition must be submitted in writing, and must include the following information; 
1. A full description of the problem and relevant facts. 
 
Page 8 of 8 
 
2. A summary of the steps the student has already taken in an attempt to resolve the problem, including 
the names of the persons involved. 
3. A statement of the requested resolution, and the student’s rationale for the requested 
accommodations. 
4. Any supporting documentation 
5. The name, ID number, and the signature of the person initiating the complaint. 
An ad-hoc committee consisting of the Dean of Students, faculty members, CSW staff, and student 
representatives will investigate the grievance. The committee may interview or consult with the student and 
any other individual the committee believes to have relevant information, in which case, the committee’s 
decision will be final. The Dean of Students will report the committee’s decision to the student in question 
and to the Provost. 
Students who believe they have received inappropriate or inadequate services from SAS should also report 
the issue directly to the Dean of Students. 
Students who believe that they have been subjected to or witnessed discrimination based on their Disability 
may file a complaint with the Office of Institutional Equity (OIE).  Complaints by students are reviewed 
according to AUC’s Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy. OIE may interview or consult with the 
student and any other individual believed to have relevant information, including faculty, staff, and students 
and will report the resolution to the student in question. 
The student’s confidentiality shall be maintained by each person involved in the informal or formal 
investigation or resolution of a student grievance under this Policy. Any disclosures regarding the student or 
the investigation, including any disclosures of clinical information provided by the student, shall be limited to 
the minimum information needed to accomplish the investigation or address the student’s grievance. If 
confidential information is to be released to a third-party, the student will be asked to sign a Release of 
Information Form Upon the resolution of the student’s complaint, all notes, correspondence, and other 
documents relating to the student’s grievance shall be transferred to SAS. 
Note*:  It is against AUC policy for any staff or faculty member to retaliate against a student who 
has requested/been granted accommodation. If a student experiences retaliation, please report this 
to the Office of Institutional Equity immediately. It is also a violation when a faculty member 
pressures a student to disclose their disability, medical status, or treatment plans. Faculty members 
only receive the approved letter from SAS which details the accommodations that need to be 
implemented. 
 
 
 

The American University in Cairo                                                    
 
Page 1 
AUC Faculty Housing – Housing Options Policy 
 
Policy Statement 
 
The Housing options for AUC Tenants are in Maadi and New Cairo only. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
To provide housing for AUC tenants in AUC owned apartments or leased apartments in certain 
districts only; Maadi and New Cairo. AUC does not provide housing for new or current AUC 
tenants in other districts like Garden City and Zamalek etc.   
AUC strategy is to lower the number of leased apartments and have Maadi and the New Cairo 
apartments as the focal points for activity. 
 
Who Approved This Policy 
                    
Provost Ehab Abdel Rahman                                                                            July 30, 2019 
VP Ranya Boraie for University Affairs 
VP Gordon A. Handke for Finance & Chief Financial Officer 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
AUC Staff and Faculty 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Eng. Sherif Maged 
 
Responsible University Office: Faculty Housing Office. 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for Housing Options policy, you may:  
 
1. Call Ms. Nermeen Habib at ext. 4156 
2. Send an e-mail to Housing@aucegypt.edu  
 
Definitions 
AUC Apartment: 
This refers to all apartments either owned by AUC or leased 
by AUC from other landlords.  
 
AUC Tenant: 
This refers to all eligible tenants from the AUC community 
according to the Faculty Housing Manual.  
https://documents.aucegypt.edu/Docs/faculty_housing/ 
Faculty_Housing_Manual.pdf 
 
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                  
 
Page 2 
Policy/Procedures 
 
General Policies: 
 
AUC houses AUC Tenants in AUC-owned buildings in Maadi and New Cairo only.  
 
AUC Tenants who were housed in rented apartments in Garden City or Zamalek before New 
Cairo housing opened will continue to live in their apartments till they retire or leave AUC or till 
they ask to move out of their apartments, unless the landlord of the apartment will ask to vacate 
the apartment or increase the rent more than the maximum allowable AUC rent. 
 
Effective Sept. 1st, 2019, the maximum rent that is paid by AUC Faculty Housing for leased 
apartments is 16,000 EGP instead of 11,500 EGP. This increase will be the last increase. AUC 
Tenants who are housed in leased apartments and their landlords increase the rent by an amount 
more than the maximum allowable AUC rent have one of the following options: 
 They can stay in their apartments and pay any amount above the maximum allowable 
AUC rent. 
 They can move to another AUC owned apartment in Maadi or New Cairo 
 They can opt out from AUC Housing and find their own housing.  
 
No current AUC Tenant wishing to change their current apartments will be offered to move to 
Garden City or Zamalek. 
 
Contracts of leased apartments that will be vacated in Garden City or Zamalek will be 
terminated and returned to the landlord immediately. 
 
AUC Tenants who choose to be housed in non AUC apartments cannot get AUC Faculty 
Housing support  
 
    
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: 03/27/2018  
 
Last Amended Date: 07/30/2019 
 
Next Review Date: 07/30/2020 

The American University in Cairo                                                                    December 4th, 2016 
 
Page 1 
Golf Carts Service (New) 
 
Policy Statement 
 
The cart reservation service is available for staff, faculty and students to travel across campus.  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
To provide transportation services to the members of the AUC community to travel across 
campus while ensuring the resources of AUC are used as effectively as possible, in addition to 
setting the standards for all carts to operate safely and efficiently within the AUC New Campus 
premises.
 
Who Approved This Policy 
 
Mr. Brian MacDougall, EVP for Administration & Finance                                March 20th, 2016 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
AUC Community  
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
Please list the location on the university’s website where this policy is located.  
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official:  
 
Responsible University Office: Transportation/Carts. 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for Golf Cart Service policy, you may:  
 
1. Call Mr. Mohamed Hosny at ext. 4153 
2. Send an e-mail to carts@aucegypt.edu  
 
Definitions 
 
Cart: 
This refers to all types of passenger golf carts and utility 
vehicles. 
 
 
 
Policy/Procedures 
The American University in Cairo                                                                  December 4th, 2016 
 
Page 2 
 
 
 
 
General Policies  
 
The Transportation Department has the right to monitor and enforce all policies and 
procedures herein. It has the right to issue policy violation warnings and charge departments 
with the respective fines.
 
The Transportation Department shall ensure that carts are operated in accordance with the 
manufacturer’s recommendations and this manual. 
 
This policy due for review every six months and reissued every 12 month.
         
Carts Drivers  
 All carts’ drivers must pass the Carts Training provided jointly by with the 
Transportation Department.  
  Any individual, who is not an AUC employee, who wishes to use a cart must secure a 
written consent from the Transportation Department and the Department to which 
he/she is affiliated to. 
Operating a Cart 
 All cart drivers operating a cart must ensure that the cart’s horn, headlights, taillights, 
windshield are working properly.  
 All cart drivers operating between sunset and sunrise must ensure that cart headlights 
and taillights are working properly.  
 Carts drivers’ who their carts are equipped with turning signals, must use appropriate 
hand signals.  
 Departments must immediately stop using a cart that is unsafe to operate until it has 
been repaired.  
 The maximum driving speed within campus premises is 20 Km/Hr (Exceptional Cases 
holds: Security, Ambulance, EHS depts.)  
 All utility carts equipped with back carriage must not be overloaded.  
 Passengers are not permitted to ride in the back carriage of a utility cart.  
 Drivers and departments are obliged to promptly report any mechanical failure such as, 
but not confined, to battery failure, flat tires or suspension problems to the 
Transportation Department.  
 All cart drivers are obliged to promptly report to the EHS and Transportation 
Departments in case an accident took place. 
Carts Licensing and Tagging  
 All carts operating within AUC Campus premises must be registered at the 
Transportation Department.  
 All departments must coordinate with the Transportation Department to ensure that all 
the carts in its custody are licensed and tagged by the Transportation Department.  
 All carts will have a tag on its front indicating its type and number. 
Carts Acquisition  
 Acquiring all types of carts must be done through the Transportation Department and 
the Supply Chain Management (SCM). 
The American University in Cairo                                                                  December 4th, 2016 
 
Page 3 
Driving a Cart within Campus Premises  
 Driving carts shall be within the designated routes only as depicted in Carts Designated 
Routes Map.  
 Passenger carts must park at the designated parking lots ( 8 locations as shown on the 
map ) 
  The Clinic, the EHS and the Security passenger carts are the only carts allowed to 
operate at the AUC Plaza (indicated in the map) given that they are serving specific 
incidents or responding to emergencies.  
 All utility carts are to operate only at the tunnel except for the following cases:  
- 
Moving items or material that cannot be procured through the tunnel during 
non-peak hours (Peak Hour Example: Assembly Hour 1-2 PM, Events, 
Assemblies)  
- 
To provide maintenance service to certain locations on campus where it would 
require carrying heavy equipment and supplies  
 Pedestrians shall always be given the right-of-way at all times.  
  Carts shall always give the right-of-way to bicycles.  
 Drivers shall stop at all blind intersections before proceeding.  
 Golf Cart drivers must always stick to the right lane. 
Carts Parking 
 Departments which has carts in its custody are responsible for providing appropriate 
parking locations and charging outlets for the carts in coordination with the Office of 
Campus Planning and Design and the Transportation Department.  
 Departments are fully responsible for all costs associated with establishing their parking 
location.  
 Carts must not be parked at locations where it may obstruct a pedestrian passage or 
block any entrance or exit of a building except during loading or unloading heavy 
material or goods. 
  Drivers are asked to park at the designated parking spaces whenever possible and 
available. 
  Drivers must not park their carts in front of any fire faucet. 
Carts Inspection and Maintenance  
 All departments which have carts in their custody must ensure that their carts are 
inspected as per the Inspection and Maintenance Schedule  
 The maintenance cost of a cart will be directly charged to the department which has it in 
its custody.  
 The Transportation Department must retain an updated inspection and maintenance 
record for all carts at any given time.  
 Carts will not operate if any major inspection item fails until it has been repaired.  
 No one, except the Transportation Department authorized mechanic or the outsourced 
mechanic, shall attempt to do any repair work in a cart.  
 Carts physical condition should be inspected daily prior to operation to insure the 
vehicle is in a safe condition.  
  Each Cart operator is responsible for providing timely notification of safety and 
maintenance concerns to the supervisor of the department to which the Cart is 
registered.  
  The department of ownership is responsible for the cost of maintenance of the Cart. The 
department of ownership is also responsible for the cost of repairing damage to the Cart 
The American University in Cairo                                                                  December 4th, 2016 
 
Page 4 
caused by regular use or an unpreventable accident.  
 The department of ownership is responsible for the cost of repairing damage to Cart 
caused by misuse, abuse or a preventable accident.  
 The Transportation Department will send communications to departments’ heads 
regarding any violations and remedial actions committed by any carts driver who works 
for this department. 
Carts Keys  
 Carts drivers shall be fully responsible for the ignitions keys as long as the cart is in their 
custody.  
 Replacing the current key lock system to any alternative lock system will be performed 
upon the department written request and by the transportation department maintenance 
personnel only 
 
Forms/Instructions  
 
List applicable forms or other university and external documents that provide helpful, relevant 
information.  Include where these documents can be located. 
 
Related Information  
 
List related university policy documents or cross-references and where they can be located. 
 
Appendices (optional) 
 
Appendices are used for informational material that is helpful in understanding the policy, but 
not directly related to the implementation of the policy, i.e., not procedures.  Content may 
include graphics or text. 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: Month, Day, Year 
 
Last Amended Date: Month, Day, Year 
 
Next Review Date: Month, Day, Year 
 

The American University in Cairo                                                                  December 4th, 2016 
 
Page 1 
Car Reservation (New) 
 
Policy Statement 
 
The car reservation service is available for staff, faculty and adjunct faculty to ensure the safety 
and security of the community. The service is also available for international students from/to 
Airport ONLY.   
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
To provide transportation services to the members of the AUC community while ensuring        
the resources of AUC are used as effectively as possible. 
Who Approved This Policy 
 
Mr. Brian MacDougall, EVP for Administration & Finance                                March 16th, 2015 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
AUC Community  
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
Please list the location on the university’s website where this policy is located.  
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Mr. Ihab Helal, Senior Supervisor, Shift, 
Transportation/Carpool.  
 
Responsible University Office: Carpool Reservation Office. 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for car reservation policy, you may:  
 
1. Call Mr. Ihab Hilal at ext. 2502, or 01270001788, 01270001818, 01270001707 
 
2. Send an e-mail to carpool@aucegypt.edu  
 
Definitions 
 
Term (alphabetical order) 
Definition as it relates to this policy 
 
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                                  December 4th, 2016 
 
Page 2 
 
 
 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
 
The car reservation service is available for staff, faculty and adjunct faculty to ensure the safety 
and security of the community. The service is also available for international students from/to 
Airport ONLY.    
 
All reservation requests must be placed through carpool@aucegypt.edu. 
 
The priority is always given to business requests.   
 
The service requester must fill and submit the request form before the desired service delivery 
date by one business day.  
 
In case of emergency reservations (Not less than three hours before the intended service 
delivery time) the following rules applies:  
- 
A premium charge applies with an additional 50% fee.  
 For emergency reservations, contact Mr. Ehab Helal, Mr. Amr Samra or Mr. Mohamed 
Tallaat with the following numbers:  
            Emergency contact numbers: 01270001788 - 01270001818 - 01270001707. 
 
 
After fulfilling the service request, all service requesters must sign the Job Order Completion 
Form.  
 
All business service requests must be signed by the department’s head or who has authorization 
from the department Head.  
 
All service requests related to medical cases must be approved by the AUC Clinic.  
 
Carpool Reservation Office operating hours will be from 8:30 AM to 3:00 PM.  
 
Private and business car reservations charges will be calculated based on the following rules:  
- 
A minimum of two hours will be charged for a single trip.  
- 
A minimum of three hours will be charged for single trips exceeding 30 KM (Thirty 
KM). 
 
 
Private car reservation requests will receive confirmation only after all business requests are 
secured. 
 
Car reservation requests cannot be made for more than 30 consecutive days. 
 
For service request time extension, and in case of availability, the requester (Business or Private) 
will be charged for the extra time fee based on the prices indicated in the regular fees table. 
 
If the extra charges were not paid, no future requests will be accommodate for the requester. 
 
Drivers’ main and only responsibility is to commute requesters to the required destination 
safely. 
 
Service requesters must not request any additional tasks from the drivers. (Ex: They are not 
allowed to carry bags, …. etc.). 
 
Service requesters are highly requested to retain the vehicle clean and dispose. 
 
AUC vehicles are intended to be used only to commute passengers along with their personal 
belongings. (luggage that fit in the truck) (Except for the truck and half-truck). 
 
Drivers must keep the radio off unless the service requester requested otherwise. 
 
The driver maximum stand-by time for regular requests is 30 minutes and for airport 
arrivals is 120 minutes. For airport arrival service, if the rider is delayed inside the 
airport (for luggage lost etc.), the rider should call the driver if the driver is needed to 
wait longer, and extra hourly fees will be applied. 
 
A waiting charge of EGP 50/Hr will be charged for two way trips in the following cases: 
The American University in Cairo                                                                  December 4th, 2016 
 
Page 3 
- 
Trip distance is less than 30 Km and the time gap between the first pickup and 
the second pickup is less than 3 hours.  
- 
Trip distance is more 30 Km and the time gap between the first pickup and the 
second pickup is less than 5 hours.  

         
 
Forms/Instructions  
 
List applicable forms or other university and external documents that provide helpful, relevant 
information.  Include where these documents can be located. 
 
Related Information  
 
List related university policy documents or cross-references and where they can be located. 
 
Appendices (optional) 
 
Appendices are used for informational material that is helpful in understanding the policy, but 
not directly related to the implementation of the policy, i.e., not procedures.  Content may 
include graphics or text. 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: Month, Day, Year 
 
Last Amended Date: Month, Day, Year 
 
Next Review Date: Month, Day, Year 
 

 
AUC Student Residences Community Guidelines 
 • Page 1 of 6 
AUC Student Residences Community Guidelines 
 
Policy Statement 
 
The AUC Student Residences Community Guidelines describe the standard of behavior to which 
students living in the AUC Student Residences are held. It also outlines community rules. The 
Student Residences include twelve on-campus units and the near-campus apartments in Building 
1 and studios in Building 2. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
The Office of Residential Life strives to create a safe and healthy environment conducive to 
learning and personal growth. We nurture this environment by encouraging and respecting 
the rights of the individual balanced against the rights and interests of the collective 
residential community. All residents and guests must conduct themselves in accordance with 
these guidelines and all AUC policies. 
 
Who Approved This Policy 
 
Dr. Deena Boraie 
Vice President, Student Life 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy?  
 
Student residents 
Guests of residents 
Parents of residents 
Office of Residential Life professional and paraprofessional staff 
Non-AUC visitors and groups 
 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Kim Jackson, Associate Vice President, Student Life 
Responsible University Office: Vice President for Student Life 
If you have any questions on the policy, you may:  
1. Call Kim Jackson at X3869 or  
2. Send an e-mail to kjackson@aucegypt.edu 
 
 
 
AUC Student Residences Community Guidelines 
 • Page 2 of 6 
Definitions 
 
 
Terms 
Definitions per this policy 
 
 
Applicant 
Any undergraduate, graduate or special program (Study 
Abroad, Arabic Language Institute, etc.) student who has 
applied for accommodation at the AUC Residences. 
Persons enrolled in the Center for Arabic Study Abroad 
(CASA) and School of Continuing Education (SCE) are not 
eligible to apply. 
 
Resident 
Applicants assigned a room at the AUC Residences for a full 
semester 
 
Day Guest 
Any non-resident inside the AUC Residences from 7:00am – 
1:00am 
 
Overnight Guest 
Any non-resident inside the AUC Residences after 1:00am 
 
No show 
Students who fail to check in to the AUC Residences by the 
first day of the third week of classes. No shows forfeit their 
room and the $100 administrative fee. 
 
Withdrawal 
Request from the resident or applicant to withdraw his/her 
application  or contract to reside at the AUC Residences 
 
Host 
Any resident who registers a day guest or an overnight guest. A 
host must accompany the guest at all times. 
 
 
 
AUC Student Residences Guidelines 
 
 
AUC believes that the experience of living with other students has an educational importance that 
should parallel and enhance each student’s academic and personal development.  For students to 
truly learn from this experience, they must demonstrate respect for the rights of other members of 
the community in which they live. All residents and guests must conduct themselves in accordance 
with these Guidelines, the Student Residences Contract, the Code of Student Conduct all AUC 
Policies. 
 
I.  Room Assignments.  The Student Residences contract guarantees university housing to the 
student, but it does not guarantee a specific room assignment that may be requested by the 
student.  The Office of Residential Life reserves the right to enforce an administrative move if 
continued residency by the student at the existing location is determined by the Director of 
Residential Life to be detrimental to any part of the University or nearby university community.  
  
The University reserves the right to assign roommates, to consolidate vacancies, to change room 
assignments for reasons of health, safety, incompatibility or other conditions seriously affecting 
 
AUC Student Residences Community Guidelines 
 • Page 3 of 6 
the general welfare of the residents involved, and to make room assignments wherever there are 
vacancies.  Students are not permitted to reside in common areas, attics, or basements unless 
such areas are designated as bedrooms by the Office of Residential Life. 
 
a. Room Changes.  Room changes are allowed in the second week of classes. Students may 
request a room change by filling out a Room Change Request form and submitting it to the 
Office of Residential Life during the second week of the semester ONLY. Once students have 
signed and submitted the form, they cannot move until they receive permission from the Office 
of Residential Life. Students are required to change rooms within 48 hours of approval from 
Residential Life. Room changes will not be granted from single-occupancy residence hall rooms 
to entirely empty double-occupancy or other single-occupancy residence hall rooms.   
 
Unauthorized room changes and exchanges may result in disciplinary action. Each person 
involved may be required to return to their original assignment and may be subject to charges of 
violations of the Code of Student Conduct. 
   
II. Guests. Residents are allowed to host a maximum of two (2) guests in their room at any one 
time. Guests must sign in and sign out at the security desk, remain in the company of their 
host(s) at all times and abide by all AUC policies. Guests are required to properly identify 
themselves upon request by a University ofﬁcial.  A guest’s failure to identify themselves or 
depart student residences when directed to do so by a university ofﬁcial may result in a loss of 
visitation privileges for that individual. Violations of the guest policy may result in the loss of 
guest privileges and/or a student conduct violation. Guests may not remain overnight without 24-
hour registration and approval. 
 
a. Overnight Guests. Residents must register their overnight guests 24 hours ahead of time by 
submitting the Overnight Guest Registration Form to the Office of Residential Life.  Overnight 
guests, including family members, are not permitted during the first two weeks of classes, the 
last two weeks of classes or during finals. Guests may not remain in the student residences for 
more than three consecutive nights. Residents are expected to respect the rights of their 
roommates or apartment mates whenever guests are present.  Each resident is allotted five non-
consecutive nights per semester. Overnight guests must be at least 18 years old. 
 
III.  Noise.  Everyone at AUC has a different schedule for studying, sleeping, and socializing. 
All residents must understand that the right of students to study and sleep takes precedence over 
the right of students to make noise.  Noise should be kept within reasonable levels at all times, 
and special care should be taken to contain noise within your room or apartment during evening 
and night hours.  Residents should make an effort to communicate with floor mates or neighbors 
about upcoming events.  Residents who repeatedly disturb floor mates or neighbors with 
excessive noise will be charged under the provisions of the Code of Student Conduct that states 
“the persistent interruption of a reasonable level of peace and quiet is also a violation.”   
Repeated offenses will result in more serious consequences, including an administratively 
initiated move to another Student Residence assignment.  
 
IV.  Quiet Hours.  One of the goals of Residential Life is to provide an atmosphere that is 
conducive to study and rest.  When “Quiet Hours” are in effect, all noise should be kept at a 
minimal level and not be heard outside the room or apartment. Student Residence Quiet Hours 
are Sunday – Saturday:  10 p.m. – 8 a.m. 
 
At all other times, students are expected to observe “Courtesy Hours” and be mindful to ensure 
that noise levels do not interfere with or negatively impact other students or the Student 
 
AUC Student Residences Community Guidelines 
 • Page 4 of 6 
Residence community.  Courtesy hours are 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  If another person 
asks you to control the noise level in and around your residence, you are expected to comply 
with the request. 
 
During final exam periods “Quiet Hours” are in effect 24-hours. Beginning at 11:59 p.m. on the 
last day of classes through the last day of finals, twenty-four hour “Quiet Hours” are in effect in 
all residences. 
 
V.  Social Gatherings.  The University supports students having social gatherings in their 
residence as long as these gatherings do not create a disturbance to other members of their 
community. Students hosting a party in their room or apartment should always consult with floor 
mates and neighbors when planning the event.  When residents host a gathering, they will be 
held accountable for the actions of their guests. If guest activity causes any harm to persons or 
property, both the responsible person(s) and the hosts may be held financially responsible.  
 
Hosts are expected to be cognizant of noise being generated from their event, and act 
appropriately in accordance with community expectations. Upon receiving a noise complaint, the 
on-duty Resident Officer will go to the gathering and inform the hosts of the problem. If 
residents and/or guests fail to respond appropriately to a complaint about excessive noise and a 
second visit is made, the event will be shut down and the hosts will be referred to the Office of 
Student Conduct and Community Relations.  Repeated offenses of any of the above community 
standards may result in more serious consequences, including an administratively initiated move 
to another residential unit or expulsion. 
 
VI.  Pets.  Pets are not permitted in any student residence. This encompasses all types of pets, 
including small animals and fish. Students and their roommates who have a pet or animal found 
in their residence are subject to disciplinary action, including suspension. Regular follow up 
visits will be made to ensure the animal has been removed.  
 
a. Service pets. Students who, because of a disability, seek approval for a support or assistance 
animal must request a reasonable accommodation through Student Disability Services office, 
located in the Center for Student Well-being.  This is a formal process that requires appropriate 
supporting documentation, including certification of the service pet.  A determination is made 
regarding whether it is reasonable for the animal to be on campus. Students must not bring the 
emotional support animal to campus until they have received approval from Student Disability 
Services, Residential Life and roommate agreement. The University reserves the right to 
withhold its approval at any time.  Any student who has an animal in residence prior to approval 
is subject judicial action.  For policies regarding service animals, contact Student Disability 
Services.  
 
VII.  Access and Identification.  Residents are required to scan their own student identification 
card (SID) to enter and exit the Student Residences.  Residents are prohibited from sharing SIDs 
or giving key access to another person. The Office of Residential Life will not under any 
circumstances key anyone into a room not assigned to him/her. Residents are prohibited from 
entering another resident’s room when he/she is not present.   
Residents must present their SID without argument upon request from Residential Life staff or 
other University official.  
 
a. Unlawful entry – gaining access to the Student Residences on-campus by climbing the 
perimeter fence is considered unlawful entry and will be report to the Office of Student Conduct 
and Community Relations. 
 
AUC Student Residences Community Guidelines 
 • Page 5 of 6 
 
VIII.  Lockouts.  On weekdays (Sunday to Thursday) during the Office of Residential Life 
business hours (8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.), all students can retrieve spare keys from the Office.  
Spare keys must be returned to the Office of Residential Life within 24 hours. Spare keys not 
returned by the close of business to the Office of Residential Life will result in a charge for the 
cost of replacing the key.  On duty Resident Officers or Assistants will handle lockouts after 
business hours and on weekends.   
 
IX.  Facilities.  Students and guests are not permitted to alter the appearance of a residence's 
exterior (including balconies) with flags, signs, satellite equipment, or any other appendage 
unless it is pre-approved by the Office of Residential Life and installed by Facilities.  
All corridors, entrances, and exits must be kept clear to provide a safe means of exit in case of an 
emergency and to facilitate cleaning.  Any items found in hallways, lounges and entranceways 
(e.g., bikes, shoes, clothing, furniture) will be collected and discarded. 
 
X. Doors.  Doors within the Student Residences play a primary role in safety by preventing 
access from intruders and by enhancing the building’s fire and smoke control capabilities.  
Propping open corridor or stairway fire doors or exterior doors, opening a secured outside door 
of a residential unit to allow access to an unknown non-resident, forcing open a secured door, 
and tampering with door locks are prohibited.  
 
Room doors must be closed and locked when the room is unoccupied or when occupants are 
sleeping.  Residents should not interfere with the function of locks at any time. 
 
XI.  Windows.  Exiting or entering through windows is prohibited.  Window screens are 
considered permanent fixtures and should not be removed for any reason other than an 
emergency.  At no time should anything be hung, mounted, or placed on the outside of a 
window.  Window locks, as well as window stops (where provided) should be used whenever 
possible. 
 
XII.  Tobacco Free Policy.  AUC is a smoke free campus. This includes the AUC Student 
Residences. Students who violate the smoking policy will be fined, and charged with violating 
the Code of Student Conduct. 
 
XIII.  Safety and Security.  Residents planning to leave the AUC Residences for more than 72 
consecutive hours must complete an Away Notice form with their Resident Officer. The Missing 
Student Notification Policy will apply in cases of residents being unreachable for more than 72 
hours.  
 
For your own safety and security reasons, the Office of Residential Life strongly recommends 
residents return to their assigned living quarters before 1 a.m. (Safety Hour).   
 
a. Medical Safety. Residents with medical conditions, whether physical or psychological, that 
may impact their experience in the AUC Residences, should inform the Center for Student 
Wellbeing or the Medical Services Department of their condition in order to ensure their safety, 
the safety of all residents and appropriate medical assistance. The Office of Residential Life, in 
consultation with affiliate offices, will utilize its resources to assist residents with disclosed and 
diagnosed medical needs. Residents withholding medical needs from the Office of Residential 
Life do so at their own risk and liability. 
 
 
AUC Student Residences Community Guidelines 
 • Page 6 of 6 
b. Fire and life safety. All University-owned housing has fire and life safety equipment.  It is 
there to protect you and your neighbors.  The only way it can work is if you leave it alone and 
report any problems to x4270. In the event of a fire alarm activation, you must evacuate the 
building by the closest exit and call x4270 to report the details of the incident. Emergency exit 
doors must be clear at all times.  
 
Do not cover, move/relocate, or in any way tamper with smoke detectors, carbon monoxide 
detectors, pull stations, horn/strobe devices, sprinkler heads or pipes, or fire extinguishers.  
Tampering with fire life safety equipment or possession of explosives, ammunition, incendiary 
devices and fireworks is strictly prohibited.  
 
XIV. COVID-19 and Public Health Policy.  As an occupant in the Student Residences during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, your residential experience will likely be impacted as the University 
continues to make public health-informed decisions.  All mitigation efforts and guidelines in 
handling this public health crisis established by the University, from time to time, are 
incorporated into your housing contract and Code of Student Conduct.  You must abide by all 
such safety and security guidelines as directed by the University in a reasonable manner. 
 
Forms/Instructions  
 
All relevant forms, lists and reports are available from the Office of Residential Life 
 
Related Information  
 
Student Code of Conduct 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: July 1, 2020 
Last Amended Date:  
Next Review Date: July 1, 2021 
 

 
1 | P a g e  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 26, 2013 
 
AUC SERVERS POLICY 
 
Policy Statement  
 
All AUC-owned production servers - even if administered by non-IT staff - should reside in the IT data center 
with administrative privilege granted to the department owning the server.  Servers used in research would be 
handled on a case-by-case basis. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
The purpose of this policy is to save office/classroom space in the different departments in addition to 
providing a more healthy environment for the equipment (A/C, UPS, Fire fighting set up, physical security,..).  
By keeping servers in one locale (tailor-made for this purpose), energy conservation in the departments would 
be achieved. 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
Executive Vice President for Administration & Finance 
Mr. Brian MacDougall 
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 September 2013 
Chief Technology Officer 
 
 
 
 
Ms. Nagwa Nicola 
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 September 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
All AUC staff responsible for servers (non-IT included) in schools and administrative offices. 
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
http://www.aucegypt.edu/about/policies/Pages/default.aspx 
 
Contacts  
 
Responsible University Official:   
Mr. Hussein Moustafa, Director:  UTI  
Responsible University Office:  
University Technology Infrastructure (UTI) 
 
If you have any questions on this policy or procedure, you may:  
 
2 | P a g e  
 
1. 
Call mr. Hussein Moustafa at  2615.3562 
2.  
Send an e-mail to hussein@aucegypt.edu  
 
Definitions: 
 
Term (alphabetical order) 
Definition as it relates to this policy 
 
 
Production server 
Servers that have running applications 
 
Policy/Procedure: 
 
 Departments/Schools follow the normal purchasing policy for acquisition of servers. 
 Site location of physical servers will be the main data center in the New Cairo Campus (parcel #9). 
 Receiving documents (goods receipt) of the servers are still handled by the owning department as well 
as SAP asset custody. 
 Administrative privileges are under the requesting department. 
 
Forms: 
N/A 
Related Information: 
N/A 
Appendices (Optional): 
N/A 
History/Revision Dates: 
 
Origination Date:  
 
February 26, 2013 
Last Amended Date:   
4 March 2013 
Next Review Date:  
 
4 March 2014 


Page 1 
 
Branding and Visual Policy Policy 
  
Policy Statement 
 
 
The American University’s (AUC) branding and visual policy is generally the rules define 
the AUC brand, how it works, and the guidelines and standards of the university brand. 
These include fonts, colors, official logo(s) and image usages. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
 
The policy is necessary for keeping the AUC brand and visual identity consistent throughout 
its communication channels and publications (print or online). The more consistent and 
coherent the branded material, the stronger the brand making it more recognizable and 
ingrained in people’s minds with the set of values and reputation intended to give off. Without 
a brand policy, the university’s image will be inconsistent, fragmented and weak as a brand 
value. 
 
Who Approved This Policy 
 
 
The Office Marketing Communication and Public Affairs is the only office responsible for 
AUC branding or visual identity, and for enforcing the policy across the university. 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy 
 
 
All AUC offices, schools, departments and centers (academic and non-academic) producing 
any publications or promotional material, in print or online must apply the university’s 
branding and visual policy. There are no exceptions to applying the AUC policy. 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
 
www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies 
 
Contacts 
 
 
Office of Marketing Communication and Public Affairs. 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for university branding and visual identity 
policy, you may e-mail to publications@aucegypt.edu  
 
Definitions 
--
 
 
Term (alphabetical order) 
Definition as it relates to this policy 
Nameplate 
 Also known as ‘logo’, which is the full AUC logo: “star” + 
wording of “The American University in Cairo” 
Clipart: 
 (Google definition) simple pictures and symbols made 
available for computer users to add to their documents. 
Stock images: 
 (Google definition) professional photographs of common 
places, landmarks, nature, events or people that are bought and 
Page 2 
 
sold on a royalty-free basis and can be used and reused for 
commercial design purposes. 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
Regulations for Correct Usage of Logo Include:  
The University nameplate must appear on all publications (print, web and mobile apps) 
material. For high-resolution nameplate files, please contact the Office of Marketing 
Communication and Public Affairs or email publications@aucegypt.edu.  
• The “star” icon and University name MAY NOT appear separately at any time.  
• The nameplate must always appear in a horizontal position (never vertically); in the 
direction of normal reading and rest of the content.  
• The nameplate must always be of a comparable/prominent size to the publication’s 
title font.  
• No text may be added to the nameplate  
• For nameplates, colors and fonts, please check the following:  
o Nameplates  
o Fonts  
o Colors  
 
Image Regulations 
Only AUC photos are allowed on all publications (print and online) (ie. cliparts, stock 
image, non-AUC photos). For use of infographics, clipart images and general style need to 
be approved prior to full design and layout of publication. All images used for any 
publication or communication and promotional material must be royalty-free, free-to-use, 
and have no photo credit requirements. All images uploaded on AUC’s website should be 
resized to the correct size and resolution as specified in the CMS Manual. The CMS Manual 
can be checked here. 
 
AUC’s Stock Image/Clipart Policy 
• All people photos must be of the AUC community (no stock image of people).  
• Outer space-related photos and certain science photos are acceptable to use, provided 
there is proper photo credit and not copyright issues are being violated  
• Generic photos like charts, keyboards, piles of book for example are acceptable to 
use, provided there is proper photo credit and there is no violation of copyright 
issues.  
• All stock images must be bought and proper photo credit must be written. A copy of 
the high-resolution photo must be sent to the Office of Marketing Communication 
and Public Affairs along with its proper credit so that it is accessible to the rest of the 
university.  
• All photos bought must be royalty free and carefully checked that there is no limit on 
photo usage/reprinting.  
• All images used for any publication or communication and promotional material 
must be royalty-free, free-to-use, and have no photo credit requirements.  
• Clipart styles that maybe acceptable are those that are more streamline, flat, of 
minimalist style; not acceptable clipart styles are those that are comic, funny, 
cartoonish, word-clipart style, degrading to the AUC brand image, 
 
 
Page 3 
 
 
Forms/Instructions 
 
 
Communications Services Form 
Branding Guidelines 
 
Related Information 
 
Communications Services  
Office Marketing Communication and Public Affairs webpage (in.aucegypt.edu/offices)  
Printing Policy  
Print shop Policy  
Social Media Compliance Policy 
 
Appendices 
 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
 
Origination Date: September 2004 
Last Amended Date: May 2023  

The American University in Cairo                                                          
Page 1 
Bus Service General Policy 
 
Policy Statement 
 
This policy is addressing the general rules that should be followed within the AUC bus service, 
and the general conduct inside the buses and at the bus terminal. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
The policy has been made to regulate the relationship between the bus riders from one side, and 
the bus drivers/bus service staff from the other side, in order to enhance the experience of riding 
the AUC bus.
Who Approved This Policy 
 
EVP Brian MacDougall 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
 All members of the AUC Community, especially those who use the bus. 
 Bus drivers. 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
http://in.aucegypt.edu/services/bus-service-schedules/policies-and-procedures 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Eng. Sherif Maged 
 
Responsible University Office: Transportation Office/Bus Service 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for, you may:  
 
1. Call Bus Service Hotline at 01270000066, or  
 
2. Send an e-mail to transport@aucegypt.edu  
 
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
Page 2 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
General Bus Policies 
 
 Faculty & staff members are entitled to ride the bus for free, upon showing their valid 
AUC ID. Spouses, relatives, friends, and visitors should pay a ticket-per-ride (please 
check visitors' policies & procedures, later in this document). 
 Enrolled students (who have a valid student ID) can ride the bus after paying either the 
bus pass fees or a ticket by ride. 
 Alumni can ride the bus upon showing their valid alumni ID, and pay a ticket by ride. 
 Those who do not hold a valid AUC ID, or are not guests of an AUC ID holder, are not 
permitted to use the AUC bus service. 
 Bus schedules are always oriented to serve class times and official staff arrivals and 
departures. 
 Time slots, routes, and points can change temporarily or permanently based on safety 
and operational aspects. Riders will be notified beforehand through the AUC email. 
 Faculty, staff and students have precedence to ride the bus over visitors. 
 In rare cases when the number of riders exceeds the available seats on any route, or the 
bus breaks down with no available backup, it is possible that the transportation official 
would provide an alternative way to transport the affected riders, either through riding 
another route's bus (while maintaining the points for both "temporarily merged" routes 
as is), or using an Uber/Careem services. 
 The aisle of the bus and the emergency exits must not be obstructed by any means. 
 “No Smoking” inside the bus for both the drivers and the riders. 
 Violations, abusive and offensive behavior cases will be handled in accordance to AUC 
Code of Conduct. 
 
Riders' Policies 
 
 General Policies 
 Changes in the bus schedules or pickup/drop off points are announced through the AUC 
email. Bus service riders should make sure to read all the announcements thoroughly in 
order not to miss their buses.  
 Riders must deal with the drivers, supervisors, and the bus service team with respect and 
courtesy. 
 Riders are encouraged to be at the pickup point 10 minutes before the announced pickup 
time. 
 Riders should call the hotline in case the bus was late for the announced pickup time. 
 In case of bus breakdown, riders should contact the hotline and remain seated until the 
backup bus arrives. 
 Riders should not ask the drivers to pick them up/drop them off at any point other than 
the official pickup/drop off points. 
 Exceptions for dropping off might take place for handicapped riders or occasionally due 
to real emergency situations, and based on bus service operations' manager's approval.  
 Riders must comply with the driver’s instructions in case of emergencies. 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
Page 3 
 In case the bus arrived late on campus, students have the right to request a stamped hard-
copy Tardiness Declaration Form from any of the Bus Terminal team members. 
 
 Inside the Bus 
 Riders can eat and drink, but should leave the bus clean. 
 Riders should not interact with the drivers while the bus in motion. Distracting the driver 
in any sense while driving will not be tolerated and will be dealt with firmly. 
 Personal entertainment devices (mobiles, laptops, music players, tabs) are to be used 
only with headphones. 
 Riders are not allowed to reserve seats for one another, and should not occupy empty 
seats with their personal belongings.  
 Riders must respect each other’s personal space. 
 Riders must remain seated while the bus is in motion. 
 Riders must not use the jump seats. 
 
Visitors' Policies & Procedures 
 
Faculty, Staff & Students who wish to have a visitor riding the bus to/from AUC must: 
1. Send an email (at least one working day ahead of the visit) to AUC Transportation 
Office & Security Office, with either a scanned copy of the National ID/Passport of the 
visitor, or stating the full name and National ID/Passport Number of the visitor. The 
email must also have the date and time of the visit, and the route that the visitor will 
ride. 
2. The visitor must show the National ID/Passport to the bus driver/Bus Service Supervisor 
before riding the bus. 
 
Drivers Policies 
 
 Drivers aren’t allowed to engage in phone or side conversations while driving. 
 Drivers must deal with riders with full respect and courtesy. 
 Drivers must drive safely with reasonable speed and avoid dangerous maneuvers. 
 Drivers aren’t allowed to turn on the radio. 
 Drivers must be fully aware with the bus route and pickup/drop off points. 
 Drivers must abide by the designated routes, drop off, and pickup points; they aren’t 
allowed to change the bus route except under certain traffic conditions and upon 
approval of the transportation manager. 
 
Bus Terminal Policies 
 
 No entry or exit from the bus terminal except from the Bus Terminal Checkpoint. 
 Pickup and drop off points on campus are within the Bus Terminal premises ONLY. 
 Bus riders must abide by the pedestrian routes inside the bus terminal to reach out their 
buses. 
 Buses must park in its corresponding parking slots.  
 All bus riders must present their ID upon crossing the Bus Terminal Checkpoint. 
 Riders who pay-by-ride must collect their tickets. 
 Riders must follow the guidance instructions of the Bus Terminal team. 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
Page 4 
 
Bus Fees Refund Policy 
 
Requests for refund of bus fees are treated as follows: 
1. Full year subscription 
 100% refund if requested within the first two weeks of the Fall semester (after deducting 
the tickets of the consumed rides). 
 70% refund if requested within the following two weeks of the Fall semester (after 
deducting the tickets of the consumed rides) 
 After the first month of the Fall semester, students who wish to refund can refund only 
the portion of the subscription in excess of the full Fall semester subscription. 
 After the beginning of the Winter semester, students who wish to refund can refund only 
the portion of the subscription in excess of the full Fall + Winter semesters' 
subscriptions. 
 There is no refund after beginning of the Spring semester. 
 
2. Semester subscription (Fall/Spring) 
 100% refund if requested within the first two weeks of the Fall semester (after deducting 
the tickets of the consumed rides). 
 70% refund if requested within the following two weeks of the Fall semester (after 
deducting the tickets of the consumed rides) 
 No refund requests will be accepted after one month from the beginning of the semester. 
 
Bus Service Hotline Guidelines & Policies 
 
 Guidelines 
 AUC Bus Service hotline working hours 6:00 AM till 1:00 AM. 
 AUC Bus riders are encouraged to use the hotline in situations, such as: bus 
breakdowns, tardiness, reckless driving, accidents, etc… 
 AUC bus riders are highly urged to retain the hotline numbers on their cell 
phones. 
 Policies 
 The caller and the hotline agent must identify themselves clearly.  
 The caller must ensure that the call doesn’t consume more than 2 minutes to give 
others the chance to report emergencies. 
 In case the reported problem wasn’t resolved, the reporter must call the hotline 
again.  
 The hotline agent must provide the caller with feedback whenever necessary. 
 Both the caller and the hotline agent have the right to report to the transportation 
manager any unprofessional attitude or language adopted by either. 
 Inquiries for bus stops and time slots must not be made through the hotline. Schedule 
related information are posted on the Bus Service Webpage.  
 Hotline agents are expected to handle all phone calls with the utmost confidentiality, 
discretion and integrity. 
 Hotline agents are to ensure a fast and prompt response to the caller based upon the 
reported issue. 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
Page 5 
 Bus riders who intentionally and/or maliciously use the hotline to make false 
allegations will be subject to disciplinary action as per AUC Policies and 
Procedures.  
 A call log is to be maintained for auditing and reviewing purposes. 
 An overview about the hotline activities is to be reported to the transportation 
manager on a daily basis.  
 The hotline operation might involve bus service providers or other departments 
whenever deemed necessary. 
 
Wi-Fi Service 
 
The AUC buses are equipped with Wi-Fi service; the password is auctransport. While using 
the Wi-Fi is free of charge, please note: 
 
 The internet service quality and speed varies regionally. 
 You are using the internet with other users, which means that the internet is evenly 
distributed to all riders. 
 Movies, streams, software updates, and other ways of high data usage are not possible. 
 
Bus Evacuation Procedure 
 
Bus riders maybe requested to evacuate the bus in one of the following cases 
 There is any kind of risk that might affect the riders.  
 After an accident. 
Bus riders are urged to adopt the following procedure in case of evacuation  
1. Remain seated till the driver instructs them to leave  
2. Stand and move in an order fashion to the nearest exit 
 
“Temporary Drop off Point” Request Procedure  
 
Riders with temporary medical issues can request a special stop point, where this point should 
be within the designated bus route. Riders with medical issues need to adopt the following 
procedure  
1. Submit a detailed request to transport@aucegypt.edu with the following details: Full 
Name, ID, E-mail, Phone, Route and the requested drop off point.  
2. The request must include an approved medical report from the AUC Clinic in which the 
medical issue duration is clearly stated. 
3. The rider must submit this request to the Transportation Manager for approval.
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: January, 2013 
 
Last Amended Date: October, 2017 
 
Next Review Date: February, 2018 
 

The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 1 
Bus Service Riders' Policy 
 
Policy Statement 
 
This policy is addressing the different bus service riders' groups, the bus service offered to each 
group, and the exceptions to the policy.  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
This policy regulates and sets the rules for riding the bus among the community members in 
order to avoid confusion and conflicts, and for smoother operations. 
Who Approved This Policy 
 
Transportation Committee. 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
AUC Community Members. 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
http://in.aucegypt.edu/services/bus-service-schedules/policies-and-procedures 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Eng. Sherif Maged 
 
Responsible University Office: Transportation Office/Bus Service 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for, you may:  
 
1. Call Bus Service Hotline at 01270000066, or  
 
2. Send an e-mail to transport@aucegypt.edu  
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 2 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
The following are the different bus riders' groups, the eligibility of each group to ride the bus, 
and the exceptions to the policy (if any): 
 
Group 
Bus Service 
Exceptions 
Faculty (Full/Part time) 
Ride the bus from the bus 
terminal, routes R1 – R13. 
They are not allowed to ride 
the bus with other groups 
(Buildings & Grounds, 
Security, Maintenance, 
Landscape, & 
Environmental Health & 
Safety). 
 
No Exceptions 
Students (Undergraduate/ 
Graduate/SCE) 
Ride the bus from the bus 
terminal, routes R1 – R13. 
They are not allowed to ride 
the bus with other groups 
(Buildings & Grounds, 
Security, Maintenance, 
Landscape, & 
Environmental Health & 
Safety). 
 
No Exceptions 
Staff  
Ride the bus from the bus 
terminal, routes R1 – R13. 
They are not allowed to ride 
the bus with other groups 
(Buildings & Grounds, 
Security, Maintenance, 
Landscape, & 
Environmental Health & 
Safety).  
 
No Exceptions 
Buildings & Grounds 
Staff 
Ride a customized bus 
service provided to them 
based on their residence 
areas and working hours. 
Buildings & Grounds staff members 
can ride the bus from the bus terminal 
in the following situations: 
1. Exceptional leave earlier/later than 
official working hours (upon 
permission from the staff 
member's supervisor) 
2. One hour early leave for females 
during the "2 years confinement 
period". 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 3 
 
Security Staff 
Ride a customized bus 
service provided to them 
based on their residence 
areas and working hours. 
 Parking Security staff ride the bus 
from the bus terminal as they have 
different working hours than other 
security staff members. 
 ID Center Security staff ride the 
bus from the bus terminal as they 
have different working hours than 
other security staff members. 
 Security staff members can ride 
the bus from the bus terminal in 
the following situations: 
1. Exceptional leave earlier/later than 
official working hours (upon 
permission from the staff 
member's supervisor) 
2. One hour early leave for females 
during the "2 years confinement 
period". 
 
Maintenance Staff 
Ride a customized bus 
service provided to them 
based on their residence 
areas and working hours. 
 Some maintenance staff ride the 
bus from the bus terminal as their 
cumulative number do not fill a 
single bus (their residence areas 
are scattered). Accordingly, they 
ride the nearest route to their 
residence from the bus terminal 
routes (R1 – R13). 
 Maintenance staff members can 
ride the bus from the bus terminal 
exceptionally if they would leave 
earlier/later than official working 
hours (upon permission from the 
staff member's supervisor). 
 
Landscape Staff 
Ride a customized bus 
service provided to them 
based on their residence 
areas and working hours. 
Landscape staff members can ride the 
bus from the bus terminal exceptionally 
if they would leave earlier/later than 
official working hours (upon 
permission from the staff member's 
supervisor). 
 
Environmental Health & 
Safety Staff 
Ride the bus either from the 
bus terminal (routes R1 – 
R13), or with the Security 
staff/Building & Ground 
staff, upon arrangement 
with the bus service. 
No Exceptions 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 4 
Outsourced Services' Staff 
(CIB, Daycare, Pharmacy, 
Food Service Vendors, 
Clinic "Medicare") 
Ride the bus from the bus 
terminal, routes R1 – R13. 
They are not allowed to ride 
the bus with other groups 
(Buildings & Grounds, 
Security, Maintenance, 
Landscape, & 
Environmental Health & 
Safety).  
 
No Exceptions 
TA/RA, Consultants, 
Grant Positions 
Ride the bus from the bus 
terminal, routes R1 – R13. 
They are not allowed to ride 
the bus with other groups 
(Buildings & Grounds, 
Security, Maintenance, 
Landscape, & 
Environmental Health & 
Safety).  
 
No Exceptions 
Others (Visitors, Alumni, 
etc…). 
Ride the bus from the bus 
terminal, routes R1 – R13. 
They are not allowed to ride 
the bus with other groups 
(Buildings & Grounds, 
Security, Maintenance, 
Landscape, & 
Environmental Health & 
Safety).  
 
No Exceptions 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: 2012 
 
Last Amended Date: December, 2016 
 
Next Review Date: November, 2017 

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery • Page 1 of 3  
October 2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: [Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Policy - October 2022]  
  
Approval date: [April 2018]  
  
Purpose of document: [ AUC should implement a business continuity and disaster recovery 
plan that caters to the business goals and expectations during disasters. Proper arrangements 
and actions need to be planned ahead]  
  
Office/department responsible: [Office of Information Security]  
Approved by: [ Wessam Maher, Principal Campus Information Security Officer]  
  
Document classification level: [PUBLIC]  
  
Document accessible: [https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]  
  
Related documents/see also: [ AUC Data Governance Policy, Information Security Policy,  
Electronic Mail Email Policy, Acceptable Use Policy, Peer to Peer Sharing Policy]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Policy  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
AUC should implement a business continuity and disaster recovery plan that caters to the 
business goals and expectations during disasters. Proper arrangements and actions need to be 
planned ahead.  
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
To protect AUC services and ensure its continuation during and after disasters.  
  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Wessam Maher, Principal Campus Information Security Officer  
  
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery • Page 2 of 3  
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
AUC Faculty  
AUC Staff  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher  
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security  
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an e-mail to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
1. Business continuity and disaster recovery activities are focused on AUC business 
priorities that need to be kept and secured from any damage or disaster while keeping 
the proper organization resiliency to keep operating during disasters.  
2. Business continuity and disaster recovery activities are led by the information security 
office.  
3. A proper risk assessment and business impact analysis should be performed 
periodically as a basis for this activity.  
4. A plan copy should be stored in a remote location.  
5. The plans should be tested regularly; all tests should be documented. Different types 
of tests are recommended.  
6. All new information systems should be included in the plans before going live.  
7. Redundancy, backup, and failover activities should be designed as needed to serve 
AUC's business objectives.  
8. The plans should be updated and reviewed regularly  
9. A proper asset inventory and data inventory should be in place, as well as documented 
business processes.  
10. A crisis communication plan should be in place and aligned with the university.  
11. Disaster declaration decisions should be clearly assigned to responsible persons.  
12. A proper communication plan and call tree should be in place.  
13. Risk tolerance, Recovery point objective, and recovery time objective should be 
approved by senior management and data owners.  
Any user found to have violated this policy (or part thereof) may be subject to disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination of employment or dismissal from the university.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery • Page 3 of 3  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
AUC Data Governance Policy   
Information Security Policy  
Electronic Mail Email Policy  
Acceptable Use Policy  
Peer to Peer Sharing Policy  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
April 2018  
Last Amended Date:  April 2018  
Last Review Date:  
October 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October 2025  

 
Page 1 
Campus Filming and Photography Policy 
 
Policy Statement 
 
This document is intended to clarify the policies and procedures governing filming and 
photography on the American University in Cairo (AUC) campuses and properties, including 
what contracts and approvals are required, and when fees will be assessed.  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
This policy governs internal use by faculty, staff and students, as well as requests from external 
organizations.
 
 
Contacts 
 
Office of Facilities and Operations 
 
Definitions 
 
Campus Image: 
A still or moving image of AUC property that can be readily 
identified by the public as AUC property by architecture, 
landmarks, signage, the presence of prominent individuals, the 
inclusion of the nameplate/logo or by any other means.  
 
Filming: 
The capturing of moving images of AUC property by any 
means on any media, including, but not limited to, film, 
videotape, digital disk or any electronic transmission to 
another medium or to the Internet.  
 
 
Photography: 
The capturing of still images onto any compatible medium, or 
posting to the Internet, by any means or devices, including, but 
not limited to, film cameras, digital cameras, electronic 
devices such as personal computers, mobile phones, personal 
digital assistants.  
 
 
 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
Filming and photography will not be permitted on any property owned, controlled or leased by 
the University unless the University has authorized these activities in accordance with this 
policy. In all instances, these activities cannot interfere with the academic or business functions 
of the University and with previously scheduled events. In addition, such activities must not 
 
Page 2 
pose a security or safety risk. Furthermore, the use or re-use of the filming or photography 
output must not violate any other policies of the University. 
 
A. Filming or Photography for Internal Use 
 
For purposes of this policy, internal use shall include all filming or photography on campus for 
non-commercial use by an AUC person or entity, or contracted for by an AUC department or 
office for AUC promotional purposes. Departments or offices that engage the services of non-
University staff (e.g., a commercial photographer or film company) for any internal use filming 
or photography must ensure that the terms governing the use or re-use of any Campus Images 
are clearly spelled out in the agreement with the contractor.  
 
Requests  
 
All requests for internal use filming and photography shall be directed to the Office of Facilities 
and Operations in order to ensure the absence of potential conflict with other campus events. 
The Office of Facilities and Operation is responsible with consulting with the Office of 
Advancement and Communications on issues related to the content of the filming and 
photography, to ensure consistency with the University’s brand, image and institutional values. 
Information required to process the request includes project name/description; specific dates 
and locations of filming or photography; names of responsible representatives; and campus 
service requirements. 
 
Fees  
 
Internal use filming and photography are not subject to location or facility use fees, but may be 
responsible for support service fees such as public safety, parking, maintenance or grounds 
restoration or custodial services. The need for such service fees shall be evaluated on a case-by 
case basis by the individual offices providing such services and communicated to the Office of 
Facilities and Operations, for the filming or photography activity proposed. 
 
B. Incidental, Non-commercial Filming or Photography  
 
No facility use agreement/confirmation form or fees are required for the incidental filming or 
photography by AUC students, faculty or staff creating work to be used for non-commercial, 
educational or administrative purposes provided such incidental filming or photography can be 
accomplished unobtrusively without interrupting campus programs, classes or activities and will 
not require any campus services. 
  
In addition, no forms or fees are required for the incidental, unobtrusive, non-commercial 
filming and photography by visitors or tourists to campus. Any such filming or photography 
may not be used for commercial purposes at any time without the express written permission of 
the University. 
 
C. News Reporting  
 
For purposes of this policy, news reporting is live filming or photography and transmission 
(with or without audio recording) as “active” or “breaking” news, by a qualified news reporting 
 
Page 3 
service. All requests for news reporting shall be referred to the Office of Advancement and 
Communications. No location or facility use fees will be charged for news reporting of AUC 
events or activities. In most cases, a representative from the Office of Advancement and 
Communications will accompany television film crews.  
 
D. Filming and Photography for External Use 
External use includes filming or photography on campus for commercial or non-commercial 
purposes and for which the University will not own the copyright to the work created.  
Filming on campus is permitted only if it does not interfere with the education/research mission, 
normal University business and previously scheduled events. All requests for external use 
filming or photography should be referred to the Office of Facilities and Operations, and must 
be received a minimum of 10 business days prior to the first proposed filming date (or the start 
of the preparation for filming, should it be required). A signed contract and permit will be 
required to film on campus.  
 
The Office of Facilities and Operations, in consultation with and pending approval from the 
Office of Advancement and Communications, will grant initial permission for filming and 
photography, and final approval will be obtained from the executive vice president of 
administration and finance.  
1. Permit Requirements 
a) Specific dates and locations have been confirmed with and approved by Office of Facilities 
and Operations and relevant departments and offices. 
b) The script or storyboard has been approved by the Office of Advancement and 
Communications. 
c) University personnel, as required, are available. 
d) The Office of Security has approved a parking plan for both production vehicles and private 
cars in use by production personnel. 
e) Full payment of all fees and other estimated charges has been received by the Office of 
Office of Facilities and Operations not less than seven business days prior to filming. 
f) All security and damage deposits, if required, are received by the Office of Facilities and 
Operations not less than three business days prior to filming. 
g) The completed application form for the Filming and Photography Permit has been returned 
with all approvals to the Office of Facilities and Operations.. 
h) Contracts have been negotiated with and signed by the Office of Facilities and Operations, 
in coordination with Office of Legal Affairs and other appropriate offices as required. 
 2. Fees  
 
All external use filming or photography will be charged a location fee that relates to the length 
of time of the project, applicable facilities rental fees, and applicable service fees for 
supervision and support (such as maintenance, parking and public safety) requested or 
ascertained as necessary by the Office of Facilities and Operations.  
 
Forms/Instructions  
 
Page 4 
 
 
Related Information  
 
 
Appendices (optional) 
 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
 

The American University in Cairo                                                          
September 12, 2021 
 
Page 1 
 
Policy Title 
Capitalization & Depreciation Policy 
Responsible University Office   
The Controller’s Office  
Policy Owner  
Financial Analysis and Reporting  
 
Pertinent Dates  
Origination Date: April, 1, 2011 
 
Amended : July 23, 2019 
 
Last Amended Date: September 12, 2021 
 
Next Review Date: September 12, 2023 
 
 
 
I. 
SCOPE OF POLICY 
 
 
Depreciation is the systematic reduction in the recorded cost of a fixed asset. The only 
exception is land, which is not depreciated. The reason for using depreciation is to match a 
portion of the cost of a fixed asset to the revenue that it generates. The capitalization is 
threshold that define the point, in terms of costs, where the fixed asset recorded as high or low 
value and having a useful life of at least two years are treated as depreciable assets (fixed 
assets). This policy will assist the readers in understanding the means of both the deprecation 
and capitalization
 
Page 2 
 
II. 
DEFINITIONS 
 
 
Term  
Definitions 
Acquisition Cost/Value 
Value of an asset at the time it is acquired. May be the invoice price or, if 
donated, the fair market value. Also included are costs incurred to place 
the asset into service (examples: freight, installation). 
Gift-in-Kind, Capital 
Donation to the university of a tangible or intangible asset other than 
cash or securities that has a useful life of more than one year and a value 
of $2,500 or more ($50,000 or more for computer software). 
Intangible Asset 
Asset not having physical substance (examples: a patent, goodwill) 
Depreciation 
Conventions and 
Guidelines 
All depreciation and amortization calculations for financial statement 
purposes should use the "straight line" method. The addition of an asset 
will be recorded at the date of acquisition (put in service date). In the 
event of a disposal of an asset, depreciation on that asset will be 
recorded for the fiscal year of the asset's disposal up to date of disposal. 
The calculation of any gain or loss on disposal will include the effect of 
the depreciation for the year of disposal. 
Low value 
Equipment/Furniture 
 
Entered under these categories all non-expendable items, having a unit 
price equal to or less than the ceiling values $2,500 or Equivalent in EGP, 
and a productive life of two or more years. Please note that orders more 
than one unit (from a similar item), where the total will exceed the 
threshold of US$ 2,500 or Equivalent in EGP will be treated as major 
equipment/furniture.   
Major 
Equipment/Furniture 
Major items of equipment and furnishings having a unit value that 
exceed $2,500 or Equivalent in EGP. Please note that fixed assets, upon 
acquisition, will be capitalized immediately and will be subject to 
depreciation. Capital expenses increase departmental depreciation 
expenses for future fiscal periods.   
 
Moreover, furniture acquisition requests will not be processed without 
the approval of the Office of Facilities Planning.  
This policy applies to all university faculty and staff across the university 
in order to properly record items purchased by university, US Federal, 
and Private Sponsor funds. 
Special Collections 
Works of art, rare books, historical treasures, or scientific specimens 
that are held for public exhibition, education, or research, rather than 
for financial gain. They are protected and preserved, and are subject to a 
formal policy that recommends that the proceeds of items sold be used 
to acquire other items for collections. 
Capital Software 
(External Acquisition or 
Internally developed) 
Capital Software either acquired from external software provider or 
internally developed must be capitalized if the cost exceeds $ 50,000 per 
software program and with useful life of two years or more. 
Disposition  
 
Final status of an asset when it is removed from the inventory of assets 
and no longer physically located on-site (examples: sale, scrap, donation, 
transfer to another university, etc.).  
 
 
Page 3 
 
III. 
POLICY STATEMENT 
 
 
The policy is aimed at maintaining accurate records of capitalized assets. Items purchased by the 
university that have a significant cost and a useful life of two or more years are recorded as fixed 
assets (capitalized) and depreciated over their estimated useful lives in accordance with the 
university guidelines. 
 
IV. 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
 
AUC community, Audit teams, and Regulatory Bodies in both Egypt and United States  
 
V. 
POLICY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES 
 
1. Treatment of Land 
Land is capitalized at acquisition cost including assessments, legal and recording fees; realtor and 
appraisal fees, draining, filling, other site preparation costs; judgments levied from damage suits; 
demolition (razing) costs of structures on land acquired as building sites. Land acquired by gift 
will be capitalized at Fair Market or Appraised Value at the time of acquisition. The acquisition 
cost of property, which includes structures not to be razed (torn down), will be allocated between 
land and buildings based upon appraised values. 
2. Treatment of Buildings  
 
Acquisition by Purchase: Buildings acquired by purchase will be capitalized at acquisition cost 
with the purchase price and associated closing costs allocated between land and buildings on the 
basis of current appraised values. Additional costs incurred for the purpose of renovating or 
modifying the building structure in order to place it in service will also be capitalized. For 
renovations, betterments, or improvements that add to the permanent value of the asset, the 
improvements must fulfill at least one of the following criteria:  
 
The useful life of the asset is increased.  
 
The productive capacity of the asset is improved.  
 
The quality of units or services produced from the asset is enhanced. 
Acquisition by Construction: Initial capitalization includes construction costs of the building 
structure, including all internal piping, wiring, and permanent fixtures (such as central air-
conditioning) associated with the distribution of utilities within the building. Costs should also 
include architectural and engineering fees, inspection fees and permits, bid advertisement 
expenses, construction financing / interest expense, utilities, and insurance costs incurred during 
the construction period. 
 
Page 4 
3. Asset Betterments: 
In case of betterments made to any assets, the betterment must be capitalized and depreciated 
over the remaining useful life of the original asset. The asset number created for the betterment 
will be a sub-number under the asset number of the original asset.  
4. Donated Fixed Assets / Gift in Kind 
Donated fixed assets should be indicated by the receiving department. The development office 
sets an estimated market value to the asset and the asset is then capitalized. All direct costs such 
as transportation and installation are to be included when evaluating the fixed asset’s value. 
5. Asset Tags / Bar Code Tag 
All fixed assets fall within the capitalization threshold and with a useful life of 2 (two) years or 
more will be identified by the University Fixed Assets System and tracked by the University 
Inventory control unit. This will be accomplished by attaching a pre-coded tag to each asset 
identifying it as "Property of The American University in Cairo”.  
The Inventory Control Policy and Procedures shall set the standards for tagging and tracking fixed 
assets. Please refer to the below link for further details: 
https://documents.aucegypt.edu/Docs/Policies/PROPERTY%20INVENTORY%20AND%20WAREH
OUSES%20CONTROL.pdf 
 
6. Fixed Asset Inventory  
To ensure that all capitalized assets have been properly recorded and tracked, the Inventory 
Control Unit will conduct an inventory of all fixed assets and the Fixed Assets Unit will reconcile 
the results of the inventory with University Accounting and Property Management records on a 
periodical basis. 
7. Accounting for Asset Inventory 
The timely and accurately reporting of asset disposals, transfers (between different departments 
or from and to the university warehouse), and moves will help ensure the accuracy of university's 
accounting records and reduce departmental time in reconciling and reviewing exceptions 
generated from the physical inventory. Additionally, timely depositing of sale or salvage proceeds 
is required.  
Any moves of movable assets within a building, between buildings or to/from temporary or 
permanent storage are to be reported to the Inventory Control Unit immediately. In addition, if 
one department transfers an asset from one room to another, the transfer must also be reported.  
 
Page 5 
8. Grant Funded Equipment  
In situations where grant funds, whether private or US Federal Government are used to purchase 
equipment, policies of tagging and recording the equipment are the same as for assets purchased 
using university funds. University inventory records will reflect the funding agency so that 
internally and externally funded equipment can be separately identified. 
9. Surplus Assets and Off-Campus Equipment 
For property surplus and moving equipment off-campus please refer to the inventory control 
policies and procedures at the following link: 
https://documents.aucegypt.edu/Docs/Policies/PROPERTY%20INVENTORY%20AND%20WAREH
OUSES%20CONTROL.pdf 
 
This is the main body of the policy and its accompanying procedures. 
 
 
VI. 
FORMS/INSTRUCTIONS (if applicable) 
 
 
The asset acquisition normally done through a purchase requisition on SAP. In special cases an 
external acquisitions can be done through payment requests directed to the controller’s office 
– office of fixed assets. All forms are electronically built-in SAP 
 
Inventory Control Policy and Procedures. Accountability and Responsibility for AUC Property. 
Link: 
https://documents.aucegypt.edu/Docs/Policies/PROPERTY%20INVENTORY%20AND%20WAREH
OUSES%20CONTROL.pdf 
 
 
VII. 
APPENDICES (if applicable) 
 
Assets Estimated Useful life 
 
 
Land 
 Not depreciable 
 
Buildings purchase or construction  
 
 
10, 15, 20, 30, or 50 years  
 
Building Improvements 
 
 
within the remaining useful life of the building  
 
Page 6 
Improvements, and Infrastructure Other Than 
Buildings (such as Roads and Landscaping, 
Utility Tunnels and Conduits, Pipeline Energy 
System, Recreation Courts, Athletic Fields 
and 
Swimming 
Pools, 
and 
Land 
Improvements). 
 
15-50 years 
Construction in Progress 
Depreciation does not begin until asset is 
placed in service. 
Equipment, Fixture, & Furniture 
 Furnishings ( Furniture and Fixture) 
 Low Value Furniture& Fixture 
 Major 
Equipment 
(Computing, 
Scientific, Appliances, Workshops, 
Photocopying and Printing, Cooling 
and Heating, Media, Agriculture, 
Other,).  
 Machines (Printing and Publishing, 
Workshop, Other Machinery) 
 Low Value Equipment 
 
 
 8 years 
 Fully Depreciated at same Fiscal Year 
 5 years 
 
 
 
 
 5 Years 
  
 Fully Depreciated at same Fiscal Year 
 Vehicles (Passenger cars, Trucks, 
Buses, Tractors, Lorries, Loaders, 
Forklift, Motorcycle) 
 Low Value vehicles with Wheels 
 4 years 
 
 
 Fully depreciated at same Fiscal Year 
 
Library books and general acquisitions 
 10 years 
Library Electronic Books & Reference 
Material that gives permanent accessibility to 
the library users (not for specific period) 
 10 years 
Rare Books Collections  
 Not depreciable 
Artwork and Historical Treasures  
 Not depreciable  
Software Systems 
 Standard 
Computer 
Software, 
Hardware & Related Accessories. 
 Systems in Progress.  
5 years 
 
Depreciation does not begin until placed into 
service (Go Live date) 
* All useful life determinations are subject to approval by the Controller's office. 
 
 
 
Page 7 
VIII. 
CONTACT INFORMATION 
 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for [Capitalization & Depreciation Policy    
] policy, you may:  
 
1. Call [Ahmed Fathy Badawy] at [2615-2331], or  
 
2. Send an e-mail to [ a_fathy@aucegypt.edu  
 

The American University in Cairo                                                         DRAFT - June 15, 2011 
 
Page 1 
Cash Imprest (Petty Cash)  
 
Policy Statement 
Based on the cost center’s request, the university assigns to one full-time employee per cost 
center a petty cash fund commensurate to average departmental minor operating needs and 
obligations. The amount will be below or equal to the limit set by the guidelines to this policy. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
This policy aims at introducing the imprest fund facility to all cost centers and defining the 
boundaries for the utilization of such facility.
Who Approved This Policy 
EVP. Brian MacDougall 
EVP for Administration and Finance. 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
AUC Community 
Web Address for this Policy 
http://schools.aucegypt.edu/offices/controller/Documents/Petty%20cash%20policy1.pdf 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Accounts Payable Director – Controller’s Office 
Responsible University Office: Office of The Controller 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for Cash Imprest (Petty Cash) policy, you 
may:  
1. Call [Account Payable Section – Controller’s Office] at [Ext # 2336], or  
2. Send an e-mail to Hesham_r@aucegypt.edu   
 
Definitions 
 
 Imprest 
An amount of money entrusted to a specific person, for a given 
period of time, to be used for paying for minor operational 
needs. 
 Replenishment 
 
 
 
 Minor Operational 
needs 
The process through which the imprest holder is refunded for 
submission of documents that support payments incurred 
through the imprest fund. 
 
Irregular needs or an unexpected shortage in regular needs that 
can be satisfied by a minor purchase, or otherwise where the 
university purchasing Department permits cost centers to 
procure such goods directly. 
 
 
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                         DRAFT - June 15, 2011 
 
Page 2 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
 Policy Guidelines  
Spending Limit: Cash imprests are primarily intended for the acquisition of minor supplies and services of a non-
personal nature. Individual items or services purchased should not exceed $60 (or Egyptian Pound equivalent) in 
value, and individual purchase transactions incorporating a number of similar items should not exceed $200 (or 
Egyptian Pound equivalent) in total. These purchases may include long-lived assets subject to the same value 
threshold. All qualifying items may be purchased directly, providing the vendor is able to provide a formal invoice 
of sale.  
Purchase of non-qualifying items with petty cash funds is permitted only in the event of extreme urgency. Such 
expenditures will not be accepted without a written explanation from the Unit/Department head explaining the 
situation which resulted in the emergency.  
No purchases may be split into smaller purchases for the purpose of by-passing monetary and tax withholding 
limits.  
Permissible Purposes: Imprest funds may be expended for the following University-business related purposes:  
 
 
 
 
 
or items of office and laboratory equipment if not available at the University supply store  
 
 
Library, and the price of which is within the permissible spending limits of the fund  
Unallowable Purposes: Imprest funds MAY NOT BE used for the following purposes:  
 
 
 
 
the 
University’s purchasing policies and procedures.  
 
Alcoholic Beverages:  
consume any sort of alcoholic beverages on AUC premises.  
 
Sanctions:  
Anyone who by-passes the SCM (other than as described above) and commits the University to make payments for 
assets, supplies or services will be required to pay personally for the items or services acquired should it prove 
impossible to rescind the offending transaction(s) without cost. The same considerations apply to the unauthorized 
hiring of personnel on task appointments. If you are in any doubt as to whether you have the authority to make a 
commitment, you are strongly encouraged to consult first with SCM or HR, as the case may be.  
Request for Imprest Fund  
A request for the creation of an imprest fund should be sent through a memorandum to the Controller stating the 
amount needed, description of the minor requirements, and identifying the name of the person who will be the 
imprest holder.  
Request for Imprest Increase  
A memo requesting the additional funds needs to be submitted to the Controller, stating the justification for the 
request. If the increase is a result of a new regular activity, such activity should be clearly described in the memo. 
The Controller’s Office will perform an analysis of utilization of funds over the previous six months before 
deciding whether the increase is justified.  
Documentation  
The American University in Cairo                                                         DRAFT - June 15, 2011 
 
Page 3 
To ensure that payments are for valid business-related purposes, employees making petty cash expenditures shall 
obtain receipts whenever possible to document their disbursements. A stamped-paid invoice may also serve as a 
receipt.  
Items not covered by cash receipt will be accounted for via completion of a "Petty Cash Voucher", signed by the 
person receiving the money as reimbursement, and stating his or her ID number. A statement signed by the cash 
recipient describing the details of payment may also be used to support the settlement.  
Tax withholding should be applied to all payments of EGP 300 or more.  
Administering the Fund  
The safe keeping of the fund is the responsibility of the fund holder. When the cash balance of the fund falls below 
the minimum operating cash needs, the imprest holder will turn in all receipts and vouchers to the Disbursement 
Office attached to a General Payment Request duly approved by the budget center manager. A summary of all 
expenses must accompany the General payment request. Please refer to the “Forms” section on the website to 
obtain the approved “Petty cash expenses summary” form. 
Upon satisfactory checking of the General Payment Request and attachments, a reimbursement check will be 
issued so that the fund can be restored to its original authorized cash balance. The General Payment Request should 
be submitted within a maximum period of one month from the date of incurring the expense. Prompt submission of 
reimbursement requests ensures timely charge of budget line items.  
For effective control over the fund and replenishment, the imprest holder should maintain an Imprest Fund 
Register, where transaction details are entered (date, amount, who received the cash, document obtained as a 
receipt, the account number charged, purpose, the balance available after the transaction, and when replenishment 
was received).  
The value of receipts and vouchers, plus cash on hand in the fund should always equal the authorized fund amount. 
The imprest holder should always maintain copies of receipts and vouchers, as well as copies of reimbursement 
requests submitted to the Controller.  
Change of Imprest Holder  
Whenever there is a change in imprest holders, the Controller should be notified in writing with the name of the 
new imprest holder. The imprest holder should document the process of handing over the imprest fund cash and 
documents to the new holder, and a copy of the handing over report should be sent to the Controller.  
The Controller’s Office shall take the necessary steps to effect the name change on the University financial system.  
Insurance Coverage  
Holders of imprest fund equal to or greater than EGP 5,000 are covered by a group fidelity insurance policy.  
Year-end Procedure  
As part of the annual fiscal closing, the Controller circulates during the first week of June the deadlines for the 
close. One of these deadlines is reporting expenses made through the imprest fund. Two options are provided to all 
cost centers:  
1. Close the imprest fund and refund its amount to the cashier, or  
2. Rollover the fund for another fiscal year.  
 
Each cost center must inform, in writing through email or memo, the Controller of its intention to close or rollover 
the fund before the deadline.  
Expenses not reported prior to the deadline will be processed against the following year’s budget. 
 
Forms/Instructions  
 
List applicable forms or other university and external documents that provide helpful, relevant 
information.  Include where these documents can be located. 
 
Related Information  
 
List related university policy documents or cross-references and where they can be located. 
 
Appendices (optional) 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                         DRAFT - June 15, 2011 
 
Page 4 
Appendices are used for informational material that is helpful in understanding the policy, but 
not directly related to the implementation of the policy, i.e., not procedures.  Content may 
include graphics or text. 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: July 1, 2010 
 
Last Amended Date: Month, Day, Year 
 
Next Review Date: Month, Day, Year 
 

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Change Management Policy • Page 1 of 6  
October 2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: [ Change Management Policy- October 2022]  
  
Approval date: [ August 2018]  
  
Purpose of document: [ The purpose of the Change Management Policy is to manage 
changes to AUC information systems, assets, and resources in a rational and predictable 
manner so that all related stakeholders can plan accordingly. Changes require serious 
forethought, careful monitoring, and follow-up evaluation to reduce the negative impact 
on the user community and to increase the value of Information Resources.]  
  
Office/department responsible: [Office of Information Security]  
Approved by: [ Wessam Maher, Principal Campus Information Security Officer]  
  
Document classification level: [PUBLIC]  
  
Document accessible: [ [https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]]  
  
Related documents/see also: [ AUC Data Governance Policy, Information Security Policy,  
Electronic Mail Email Policy, Acceptable Use Policy, Peer to Peer Sharing Policy]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
Change Management Policy  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
All changes to any Information system, resource, or asset must be approved first by the 
Change Management Committee; all changes must be documented and well communicated to 
all relevant stakeholders.   
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
The purpose of the Change Management Policy is to manage changes to AUC information systems, 
assets, and resources in a rational and predictable manner so that all related stakeholders can plan 
accordingly. Changes require serious forethought, careful monitoring, and follow-up evaluation to 
reduce the negative impact on the user community and increase the value of Information Resources.  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Wessam Maher, Principal Campus Information Security Officer  
  
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Change Management Policy • Page 2 of 6  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
AUC Faculty and Staff  
  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk Officer 
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security  
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an e-mail to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
Definitions  
 
  
Term (alphabetical order)  
Definition as it relates to this policy  
Digital assets/Information 
Resource  
any and all computer printouts, online display devices, magnetic 
storage media, and all computer-related activities involving any 
device capable of receiving email, browsing Web sites, or 
otherwise capable of receiving, storing, managing, or 
transmitting electronic data including, but not limited to, 
mainframes, servers, personal computers, notebook computers, 
hand-held computers, personal digital assistant (PDA), pagers, 
distributed 
processing 
systems, 
network-attached 
and 
computer-controlled medical and laboratory equipment (i.e., 
embedded technology), telecommunication resources, network 
environments, telephones, fax machines, printers and service 
bureaus. Additionally, it is the procedures, equipment, facilities, 
software, and data that are designed, built, operated, and 
maintained to create, collect, record, process, store, retrieve, 
display, and transmit information.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Change Management Policy • Page 3 of 6  
Data Owner  
The manager or agent is responsible for the function supported 
by the resource, the individual upon whom responsibility rests 
for carrying out the program that uses the resources. The 
owner is responsible for establishing the controls that provide 
security. The owner of a collection of information is the person 
responsible for the business results of that system or the 
business use of the information. Where appropriate, ownership 
may be shared by managers of different departments.  
Data Custodian  
Guardian or caretaker; the holder of data, the agent charged with 
implementing the controls specified by the owner. The 
custodian is responsible for the processing and storage of 
information. For mainframe applications, Information Services 
is the custodian; for micro and mini-applications, the owner or 
user may retain custodial responsibilities. The custodian is 
normally a provider of services.  
  
Change Management  
The process of controlling modifications to hardware, software, 
firmware, application, network, digital infrastructure, and 
documentation to ensure that Information Resources are  
 
protected against improper modification before, during, and after 
system implementation.  
Change:   
• 
Any implementation of new functionality   
• 
Any interruption of service  
• 
Any repair of existing functionality  
• 
Any change in networking functionality  
• 
Any removal of existing functionality  
  
Scheduled Change  
Formal notification is received, reviewed, and approved by the 
review process in advance of the change being made.  
  
Unscheduled Change  
Failure to present a notification to the formal process in advance 
of the change being made. Unscheduled changes will only be 
accepted in the event of a system failure or the discovery of a 
security vulnerability.  
  
Emergency Change  
When an immediate unauthorized response to an imminent 
critical system, failure is needed to prevent a widespread service 
disruption.  
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Change Management Policy • Page 4 of 6  
  
1. Every change to any AUC Information Resources/Digital assets resource such as 
operating systems, computing hardware, networks, and applications is subject to the 
Change Management Policy and must follow the Change Management Procedures.  
2. The significance of the change to be defined as a "change" is set by the Change 
Management Committee CMC procedures and guidelines.  
3. All changes affecting computing environmental facilities (e.g., air-conditioning, water, 
heat, plumbing, electricity, and alarms) need to be reported to or coordinated with the 
leader of the change management process.  
4. A Change Management Committee CMC, appointed by both VP and CTO, will meet 
regularly to review change requests and to ensure that change reviews and 
communications are being satisfactorily performed.  
5. Information Security Office must be included in the Change Management Committee 
to ensure that AUC information and digital assets are secured at all times adequately. 
Accordingly, the Information Security impact should be delivered to CMC and senior 
management for any change.  
6. A formal written change request must be submitted for all changes, whether scheduled, 
unscheduled, or emergency ones.  
7. All scheduled change requests must be submitted in accordance with change 
management procedures so that the Change Management Committee has time to 
review the request, determine and review potential failures, and make the decision to 
allow or delay the request.  
8. Change requests must fulfill Information Security requirements.  
9. All change requests must receive formal Change Management Committee approval 
before proceeding with the change.  
10. All change requests must be submitted early enough to provide the Change 
Management Committee the adequate time to process the request according to its 
severity, complexity, and urgency.  
11. The appointed leader of the Change Management Committee may deny a scheduled 
or unscheduled change for reasons including, but not limited to, inadequate planning, 
inadequate backout plans, the timing of the change will negatively impact a key 
business process such as year ends accounting, or if adequate resources cannot be 
readily available. Adequate resources may be a problem on weekends, holidays, or 
during special events.  
12. Customer notification must be completed for each scheduled or unscheduled change 
following the steps contained in the Change Management Procedures.  
13. A Change Review must be completed for each change, whether scheduled or 
unscheduled, and whether successful or not.   
14. A Change Management Log must be maintained for all changes. The log must contain, 
but is not limited to:   
a. Date of submission and date of the change  
b. Owner and custodian contact information  
c. Nature of the change  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Change Management Policy • Page 5 of 6  
d. Indication of success or failure  
15. All AUC information systems and digital assets must comply with an Information 
Resources change management process that meets the standards outlined above.  
16. Change Management Committee can approve specific changes to bypass the 
committee approval cycle under certain conditions.  
17. Emergency Changes are allowed as an exception and should be reported officially to 
the Change Management Committee within 24 hours maximum and labeled as 
"emergency change". The action owner needs to add VP for Digital Innovation in this 
report. Change Management Committee has the right to accept or refuse this change. 
Abuse of this rule is not allowed.  
18. Verbal approvals and communications should be the minimum, and if it occurs, then 
it must be documented afterward officially the soonest.  
19. Proper testing should be performed for any change.   
20. An adequate backup/fallback plan for aborting and recovering from unsuccessful 
changes and unforeseen events must be in place with clear stakeholders' 
responsibilities and accountabilities.  
21. Proper communication with relevant stakeholders and data owners should be 
performed at all times when needed.  
22. IT is considered a data custodian; accordingly, any change consequences like possible 
problems that may happen because of the change or any worst-case scenarios must be 
communicated and approved by the relevant data owners. This communication should 
be on an appropriately high level of business language.  
23. A proper inventory of all change management processes, logs, and approvals should 
be in place  
24. Change management policy domain is for information systems and digital assets that 
are already in production and passed the release management processes; however, if a 
new production system will integrate with other running components, then it must be 
governed by this policy  
  
Any user found to have violated this policy (or part thereof) may be subject to disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination of employment or dismissal from the University.  
  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
AUC Data Governance Policy   
Information Security Policy  
Electronic Mail Email Policy  
Acceptable Use Policy  
Peer to Peer Sharing Policy  
  
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Change Management Policy • Page 6 of 6  
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
June 2018  
Last Amended Date:  August 2018  
Last Review Date:  
October 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October 2025  
  
   
  

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Clear Desk Policy • Page 1 of 4  
October 2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: [ Clear Desk Policy – October 2022]  
  
Approval date: [ August 2018]  
  
Purpose of document: [ The purpose of this Clear Desk and Clear Screen policy is to 
enable The American University in Cairo (AUC) to:  
• 
Establish a culture of security and trust for all AUC faculty & staff   
• 
Reduce the risks of unauthorized access to, loss of, or damage to, sensitive 
information;  
• 
Produce a positive image for the university; and  
• 
Reduce the threat of security incidents]  
  
Office/department responsible: [ Office of Information Security]  
Approved by: [ Ms. Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer]  
  
Document classification level: [PUBLIC]  
  
Document accessible: [ https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]  
  
Document includes: [ Policy]   
  
Related documents/see also: [ All AUC Policies 
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Clear Desk Policy  
 
Policy Statement  
This document sets out a statement of the policy and principles adopted by The American 
University in Cairo governing the clear desk and clear screen of workstations, PCs, Laptops, 
printers & mobile devices “tablets, phones…etc.” or any electronic device that holds AUC data 
or owned by AUC. This policy is applicable across all the locations of university offices and 
addresses security issues related to various information media such as paper documents, 
computer media, paper files, etc.  
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
The purpose of this Clear Desk and Clear Screen policy is to enable The American 
University in Cairo (AUC) to:  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Clear Desk Policy • Page 2 of 4  
  
• 
Establish a culture of security and trust for all AUC faculty & staff   
• 
Reduce the risks of unauthorized access to, loss of, or damage to, sensitive 
information;  
• 
Produce a positive image for the university, and reduce the threat of security incidents.  
 
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Ms. Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
Entire AUC community 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Clear Desk Policy • Page 3 of 4  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk Officer 
  
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security.  
  
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an e-mail to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
Definitions  
 
  
Term (alphabetical order)  
Definition as it relates to this policy  
Clear Desk  
Clearing of the workstation area/desk, by the organization's 
employee, at the end of each workday; this not only includes 
clearing or storing away documents but also post-its, business 
cards, and removable media (CDs, floppy disks, memory 
sticks).  
Clear Screen  
Locking of computers by the organization's employees when 
leaving their desk and logging off when leaving for an 
extended period of time  
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
All faculty, staff, part-time faculty & staff, and other entities working for The American 
University in Cairo (AUC) are subject to this policy. Clear Desk and Clear Screen  
1. Appropriate facilities are available in the office for storage of computer media (disks, 
tapes, CDs), paper and paper files, depending on their security classification.  
2. Personal computers, computer terminals, and printers should be switched off when not in 
use and should be protected by locks, passwords, etc.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Clear Desk Policy • Page 4 of 4  
3. All desktops and laptops should have a password-protected screensaver that will 
automatically be activated within a few minutes (between three and five minutes is 
reasonable) of inactivity.  
4. Incoming and outgoing mail collection points should be protected or supervised so that 
letters cannot be stolen or lost, and faxes should be protected when not in use.  
5. Photocopiers should be locked after each use, thereby reducing the chances of 
unauthorized printing/copying of sensitive information.  
6. All printers and fax machines should be cleared of papers as soon as they are printed; this 
helps ensure sensitive documents are not left in printer trays for the wrong person to pick 
up.  
7. Consider scanning paper items and filing them electronically in your workstation.  
8. Lock your desk and filing cabinets whenever you are away from them for a prolonged 
period and while leaving the office at the end of the day.  
9. Always clear your workspace before leaving for the end of the business day and whenever 
you intend to be out of the office for longer periods of time.  
  
Failure to abide by the above policy will lead to disciplinary actions that could be up to 
dismissal from the university  
 
Forms/Instructions   
 
  
Kindly contact the IT Help Desk, support@aucegypt.edu, for more technical details   
 
Related Information   
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
January 2016  
Last Amended Date:  August 2018  
Last Review Date:  
October 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October 2025  

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Cloud Hosting Policy • Page 1 of 8  
October 2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: [Cloud Hosting Policy – October 2022]  
  
Approval date: [July 2018]  
  
Purpose of document: [This policy establishes the technical terms and conditions for 
cloud or offsite Service Providers and services. All IT-related RFPs, Contracts, etc. 
must abide by this policy. These technical terms and conditions will help to protect 
AUC departments by mitigating the risks associated with entrusting AUC data to a 
third party.]  
  
Office/department responsible: [Office of Information Security]  
Approved by: [Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer]  
  
Document classification level: [PUBLIC]  
  
Document accessible: [ https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies ]  
  
Document includes: [Policy]   
  
Related documents/see also: [AUC Data Governance Policy, Information Security Policy, 
Electronic Mail Email Policy, Acceptable Use Policy, Peer to Peer Sharing Policy]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
Cloud Hosting Policy  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
Cloud and offsite hosting offer a credible alternative to traditional IT delivery models. Cloud 
and offsite hosting can provide benefits such as rapid delivery, enhanced scalability, agility, 
and new funding models. This policy provides a way for AUC to utilize offsite-hosting 
facilities to include software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and  
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) – is referred to as "Cloud and Offsite Hosting Services" in 
the remainder of this policy. AUC is governing these services' usage through this document.  
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
This policy establishes the technical terms and conditions for cloud or offsite Service 
Providers and services. All IT-related RFPs, Contracts, etc., must abide by this policy. These 
technical terms and conditions will help to protect AUC departments by mitigating the risks 
associated with entrusting AUC data to a third party.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Cloud Hosting Policy • Page 2 of 8  
  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
AUC Faculty and Staff  
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
March 2022  
  
Cloud Hosting Policy • Page 3 of 8  
  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk 
Officer 
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security  
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an e-mail to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
General Terms and Conditions (mandatory)  
  
All cloud and offsite hosting services should pass through approvals from the Officer of 
Information Technology and Information Security unit before purchase approval and 
renewal. A non-Disclosure Agreement should be signed between both parties. All legal 
documents should be revised by AUC legal office. A proper ROI/Cost-Benefit analysis 
should be performed and approved by management before deciding to move or initiate AUC 
services on any cloud.  
  
Agreements should contain or cover the following statements and Clauses  
  
Clause 1 (mandatory)  
The Service Provider shall have a fully implemented information security program to protect 
AUC information assets and provide a high-level overview of that program to AUC 
Information Security Office side.  
  
Clause 2 (mandatory)  
AUC shall own all rights, title, and interest in its data related to the services provided by this 
contract. The Service Provider shall not access AUC User accounts or AUC Data, except (i) 
in the course of data center operations, (ii) response to service or technical issues, (iii) as 
required by the express terms of the contract, or (iv) at AUC written request.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Cloud Hosting Policy • Page 4 of 8  
Clause 3 (mandatory)  
Protection of personal privacy and sensitive data shall be an integral part of the business 
activities of the Service Provider to ensure that there is no inappropriate or unauthorized use 
of AUC information at any time. To this end, the Service Provider shall safeguard the 
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of AUC information and comply with the following 
conditions:  
  
a) Personal information obtained by the Service Provider shall become and remain the 
property of AUC.  
b) At no time shall any data or processes,  which either belong to or are intended for the 
use of the AUC or its officers, agents, or employees, be copied, disclosed, or retained 
by the Service Provider or any party related to the Service Provider for subsequent 
use in any transaction that does not include AUC.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
March 2022  
  
Cloud Hosting Policy • Page 5 of 8  
c) The Service Provider shall not use any information collected in connection with the 
service issued from this proposal for any purpose other than fulfilling the service.  
d) The Service Provider shall encrypt all non-public data in transit to the cloud during 
the life of the contract.   
e) For engagements where the Service Provider stores sensitive, personally identifiable, 
or otherwise confidential information, this data shall be encrypted at rest.   Examples 
are Social Security Number, Date of Birth, Driver's License number, passwords, 
financial data, and federal/state tax information.  
  
Clause 4 (mandatory)  
The Service Provider shall not store or transfer non-public AUC data outside of the agreed 
country of service residence without the written consent of AUC.   This includes backup 
data and Disaster Recovery locations.  
  
Clause 5 (mandatory)  
The Service Provider shall provide written notice to AUC of any actual security breach that 
jeopardizes AUC data or processes. This notice shall be given to AUC within 24 hours of its 
discovery. Full disclosure of the jeopardized data shall be made. In addition, the Service 
Provider shall inform AUC of the actions it is taking or will take to reduce the risk of further 
loss to AUC.  
  
Clause 6 (mandatory)  
All communication shall be coordinated with AUC when the Service Provider is liable for 
the loss; Service Provider shall recover all costs of response and recovery from the breach.  
  
Clause 7 (mandatory)  
The Service Provider shall contact AUC upon receipt of any electronic discovery; litigation 
holds, discovery searches, and expert testimonies related to, or which in any way might 
reasonably require access to the data of AUC. The Service Provider shall not respond to 
subpoenas, service of process, and other legal requests related to AUC without first 
notifying AUC unless prohibited by law from providing such notice.  
  
Clause 8 (mandatory)  
In the event of termination of the contract, the Service Provider shall implement an orderly 
return of AUC data in an AUC-defined format and the subsequent secure disposal of AUC 
data.   
  
Suspension of services:  
During any period of suspension, the Service Provider shall not take any action to erase any 
AUC data.  
  
Termination of any services or agreement entirety:  
In the event of termination of any services or agreement in entirety, the Service Provider 
shall not take any action to erase AUC data for a period of 90 days after the effective date of 
the termination. After such 90 day period, the Service Provider shall have no obligation to 
maintain or provide any AUC data and shall thereafter, unless legally prohibited and subject 
to applicable law, destroy all AUC data in its systems or otherwise in its possession or under 
its control.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Cloud Hosting Policy • Page 6 of 8  
  
Post-Termination Assistance:  
AUC shall be entitled to any post-termination assistance generally made available with 
respect to the Services unless a unique data retrieval arrangement has been established as 
part of a Service Level Agreement.  
  
  
Secure Data Disposal  
When requested by AUC, the provider shall destroy all requested data in all of its forms, for 
example, disk, CD/DVD, backup tape, and paper. Data shall be permanently deleted and 
shall not be recoverable, according to the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(NIST) approved methods, and certificates of destruction shall be provided to AUC.  
  
Clause 9 (mandatory)  
The Service Provider shall conduct criminal background checks on all staff, including 
subcontractors, utilized to fulfill the obligations of the contract. If any staff being utilized to 
fulfill the obligations of the contract have criminal convictions or pending litigation, 
including but not limited to dishonesty or criminal fraud, the service provider shall notify 
AUC. The Service Provider shall promote and maintain an awareness of the importance of 
securing AUC's information among the Service Provider's employees and agents.  
  
Clause 10 (mandatory)  
The Service Provider must manage AUC's records in accordance with all applicable records 
management laws and regulations, including those set forth by US Federal laws and 
Egyptian laws.  
  
Clause 11  
The Service Provider shall allow AUC access to system security logs, latency statistics, etc., 
that affect this engagement, its data, and or processes. This includes the ability of AUC to 
request a report of the records that a specific user accessed over a specified period.  
  
Clause 12  
The Service Provider shall allow AUC to audit conformance to the contract terms. AUC 
may perform this audit or contract with a third party at its discretion and AUC's expense.  
  
Clause 13  
The Service Provider shall perform an independent audit of their data centers at least 
annually at their expense and provide a redacted version of the audit report upon request.   
The Service Provider may remove their proprietary information from the redacted version. 
For example, a Service Organization Control (SOC) 2 audit report can be sufficient.  
  
Clause 14  
Advance notice (to be determined at contract time) shall be given to AUC of any major 
upgrades or system changes that the Service Provider will be performing. A major upgrade 
is a replacement of hardware, software, or firmware with a newer or better version, in order 
to bring the system up to date or to improve its characteristics and usually includes a new 
version number. AUC reserves the right to defer these changes if desired.  
  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
March 2022  
  
Cloud Hosting Policy • Page 7 of 8  
Clause 15  
The Service Provider shall disclose its non-proprietary security processes and technical 
limitations to AUC such that adequate protection and flexibility can be attained between 
AUC and the Service Provider. For example, in virus checking and port sniffing – AUC and 
the Service Provider shall understand each other's roles and responsibilities.  
  
Clause 16  
The Service Provider shall enforce separation of job duties, require commercially reasonable 
non-disclosure agreements, and limit staff access to customer data to that which is 
absolutely needed to perform job duties.  
Clause 17  
AUC shall have the ability to import or export data piecemeal or in entirety at its discretion 
without interference from the Service Provider. This includes the ability for AUC to import 
or export data to/from other Service Providers.  
  
Clause 18  
The Service Provider shall be responsible for the acquisition and operation of all hardware, 
software, and network support related to the services being provided. The technical and 
professional activities required for establishing, managing, and maintaining the environment 
are the responsibilities of the Service Provider. The system shall be available 24 hours per 
day, 365 days per year basis (with agreed-upon maintenance downtime), and provide service 
to customers as defined in the Service Level Agreement.  
  
Clause 19  
The Service Provider shall identify all of its strategic business partners related to services 
provided under this contract, including but not limited to all subcontractors or other entities 
or individuals who may be a party to a joint venture or similar agreement with the Service 
Provider, who will be involved in any application development and/or operations.  
  
AUC shall be notified, in advance, if any AUC services or data are to be subcontracted to a 
third party. The Service Provider shall not subcontract any of its rights and obligations 
under its contract with AUC without the written consent of AUC.  
  
Clause 20  
AUC shall have the right at any time to require that the Service Provider removes from 
interaction with AUC's data any Service Provider representative who AUC believes is 
detrimental to its working relationship with the Service Provider. AUC will provide the 
Service Provider with notice of its determination and the reasons it requests the removal. If  
AUC signifies that a potential security violation exists with respect to the request; the 
Service Provider shall immediately remove such individual. The Service Provider shall not 
assign the person to any aspect of the contract or future work orders without AUC's consent.  
  
Clause 21  
The Service Provider shall provide business continuity and disaster recovery plan upon 
request and ensure that AUC's Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point 
Objective (RPO) are met, as defined in the contract.  
  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Cloud Hosting Policy • Page 8 of 8  
Clause 22  
The Service Provider shall use web services exclusively to interface with AUC's data in near 
real-time when possible.  
  
Clause 23  
The Service provider shall encrypt all AUC non-public data that resides on any Service 
Provider's mobile devices during the life of the contract.  
  
  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date: January 2016  
Last Amended Date: July 2018  
Last Review Date: October 2022 
Next Review Date: October 2025  

 
 
 
Page 1 of 18 
 
Policy Title 
Collection Development Policy 
Responsible University Office   
LLT 
Policy Owner  
Director for Collections, LLT 
Pertinent Dates  
Revised: Mar 2021 
Approved: Apr 2021 
Effective: Apr 2021 
 
 
I. 
SCOPE OF POLICY 
 
 
The guidelines of the Policy will assist in developing system-wide collection development policies that will 
serve as planning documents and working tools for selectors, aid communications between the libraries and 
with users, and assure consistent and balanced growth of the collections. 
 
II. 
DEFINITIONS 
 
Term (alphabetical 
order) 
Definition as it relates to this policy 
Main Library 
Main Library collection (does not include Rare Books and Special 
Collections Library) 
RBSCL 
Rare Books and Special Collections Library 
 
 
III. 
POLICY STATEMENT 
 
The General Collection Development Policy is intended to serve as a guideline to build and maintain the 
substantive resource collections of the AUC Libraries and Learning Technologies. This policy covers all 
collections, both physical and online, within LLT. The Library is the chief information resource of the 
University, and is committed to acquiring and maintaining scholarly content on a wide variety of subjects, 
including those undergoing rapid development and those disciplines in which research is being done. 
 
IV. 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Director for Collections 
Director for the Middle East Center of Excellence 
Associate Dean, Rare Books and Special Collections Library  
 
V. 
POLICY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES 
 
 
AUC Libraries Collection Development Policy  
Introduction and Library Goals 
 
The collections of AUC Libraries and Learning Technologies (LLT) comprise the scholarly and historical 
collections within the Main Library and the Rare Books and Special Collections Library (RBSCL). These 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 18 
 
units share some common collection development policies as well as unique policies respectively. All 
collections are built with the goal to support the University's varied academic and research programs at both 
the undergraduate and graduate levels, and to a lesser extent independent researchers.  
 
The Library is committed to acquiring and maintaining scholarly content on a wide variety of subjects, 
including those undergoing rapid development and those disciplines in which research is being done at the 
university. Content is acquired for all areas of teaching and research, though with a particular focus on the 
social, political, economic, historical, cultural, artistic, and scientific and technological issues pertinent to 
Egypt and the Middle East region. RBSCL collections are acquired with a particular emphasis on the 
heritage of Egypt for study and preservation.  
 
Consisting of both physical and digital scholarly works (with an increasing emphasis on electronic formats), 
Main Library holdings are acquired through the active purchase of monographs and various forms of media 
and subscriptions to eBooks, periodicals and databases. Primary source materials across a variety of 
physical and digital formats (books, archives, photographs, drawings, digital files, etc.) are acquired for the 
RBSCL. LLT’s collection is primarily in English and Arabic, while other European languages are acquired 
selectively.  
 
AUC Libraries and Learning Technologies endorses the University's policy of advancing the ideals of 
American liberal arts and professional education, freedom of academic expression, the free exchange of 
ideas and information, the healthy debate of divergent ideas, and the promotion of open and on-going 
interaction with scholarly institutions throughout Egypt and other parts of the world. 
 
ACQUISITIONS POLICIES 
The guidelines in this Policy assist selectors in the Library, support communications between the Library 
and users, and assure consistent and balanced growth of the collections. Additionally these guidelines ensure 
a mutual understanding between the Library and the Faculty Library Liaisons for informative and mutually 
beneficial dialogue. 
All collections are built with the goal to support the University's varied academic and research programs at 
both the undergraduate and graduate levels, and to a lesser extent independent researchers. Additional focus 
on Egypt specific content for study and preservation is key for the Rare Books and special Collections. 
 
Criteria and Parameters 
LLT collects materials and other information resources in different types of formats and languages, to meet 
the needs of the LLT stakeholders. LLT strives to build collections that incorporate all forms of scholarly 
communication. The AUC Library collection is electronic-preferred for both periodicals and monographs. 
However, based upon availability and other criteria (e.g. image-intensive publication) the Library may 
acquire a physical format. In each discipline, we attempt to establish a collection consisting of appropriate 
formats in a quantity proportional to its value for practitioners of the discipline. 
 
The parameters for collection building include the following: 
 
Chronology: Limitations and decision for inclusion of materials are determined by subject areas, the needs 
of courses taught, and research that is conducted by the AUC community and international scholars. Rare 
historical materials are of consideration for inclusion, in addition to valuable older materials, and out-of-
print materials. 
 
Copyright: AUC Libraries adheres to Egyptian law, and United States law where appropriate. Only legal 
copies of materials will be added to the collection, all use of material in its collections will be made within 
the limits of the law. 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 18 
 
Date of Publication: Selectors have to consider the date of publication of the source as one of the 
determining factors when acquiring materials. 
 
Duplication/Replacements: The AUC Library, as a rule, does not keep duplicate copies of monographs or 
periodicals. The only exception is where preservation of a copy is deemed necessary (e.g. AUC publications, 
items in archival collections, etc.). The Library replaces torn-out, damaged, or lost material, if deemed still 
relevant to the scholarly pursuits of the AUC community.  
 
Geographical Areas: The Library will collect in all geographic areas relevant to coursework and research. 
Areas that are particularly prioritized include Egypt, North Africa and the Middle East. 
 
Language: The primary language in which material is collected is English, in line with AUC instruction. 
French and German are acquired for highly relevant subjects (e.g. Egyptology, Middle East politics). Modern 
and classical Arabic are also emphasized. In addition, given the unique strength of multiple linguistic 
communities in Cairo and the university's emphasis on liberal education, works in major Western and Arabic 
languages such as novels, plays, histories and other literary works, particularly materials acquired by 
donation, will be added to the collection. Material in various languages may be contained in archival 
collections or among other primary sources acquired for the Rare Books and Special Collections Library. 
 
Subject Area Coverage: Emphasis is on Egypt and the Middle East, with particular focus on the social, 
political, economic, historical, cultural, artistic, and scientific and technological issues pertinent to the 
region. Broad but selective international coverage will be also included, and some subject areas will receive 
more attention based on the needs of the academic programs and areas of excellence.  
The Rare Books and Special Collections Library acquires selected primary and secondary source materials 
that reflect the history, culture, arts, and society of Egypt and the region; for contemporary books and 
periodicals/continuing resources this is focused on supporting AUC programs in Egyptology, Coptic Studies, 
and Islamic Art and Architecture. Other subject areas that are a particular focus of the RBSCL include 
architecture and the built environment; Egyptian visual arts history and other arts and culture including 
cinema; Egyptian economics and business history; ethnic, foreign, and religious sub-communities in Egypt; 
travel literature of Egypt and the Middle East; women’s history, social change, government, and law; and 
the history and heritage of the American University in Cairo. See “Format: Special Collections and Rare 
Books” below for formats of materials collected by the RBSCL. 
 
Types of Materials and Formats: The Library collects materials in all formats so long as the materials meet 
the selection criteria. However, due to the nature of the University and emphasis on blended learning, 
electronic is preferred. See below for more information on formats collected by the Main Library and 
RBSCL. 
  
Deaccessioning and Weeding 
Libraries acquire physical materials through many means and over decades. At times, libraries are required 
to evaluate their physical collections and, in the process of ensuring consistent and balanced growth, 
weeding is necessary. Deaccessioning can be for numerous reasons as mentioned below. LLT reserves the 
right to remove materials in whatever format that duplicate existing holdings, or that no longer fall within 
the scope of our collecting areas, including material removed in the course of archival processing. 
Library materials of all types (which include, but are not limited to books, journals, microforms, and maps) 
may be weeded if they meet any of the following criteria: 
 
Completeness: Materials that are part of a multi-volume set of which the library does not have all 
volumes may be weeded. 
 
Currency: The content of library materials should be accurate and up to date. Materials that are 
superseded by newer, revised, or updated editions may be weeded (including textbooks). The 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 18 
 
library takes into consideration faculty and students whose research and teaching require the use of 
historical texts. 
 
Duplicates: Because of space limitations the library may weed duplicate copies of library 
materials. The general policy is to maintain one copy only, except if specifically related to AUC or 
Egypt. 
 
Language: As the Main Library acquires primarily in English and Arabic, other languages may be 
weeded more readily. Arabic titles will rarely be weeded unless due to a criteria above. As a 
general rule we will maintain a copy of all Arabic titles we have acquired as these are extremely 
difficult to replace. 
 
Physical Condition: Materials that are badly deteriorated or damaged and beyond reasonable 
preservation efforts will be weeded. Replacements may be acquired where deemed necessary. 
 
Subject Matter: The subject of the resource will be considered. Material relating to Egypt 
specifically and the Middle East more generally will rarely be weeded. This also includes whether 
the material is considered of scholarly worth and relevant. 
 
Uniqueness: The library will not weed materials that are considered unique, as long as they are 
relevant and not obsolete. 
 
Usage: Low or no usage may be a factor in weeding decisions. Library personnel will consult 
circulation statistics or other reports to determine viable candidates for weeding. 
 
Format Obsolescence: Materials in obsolete formats may be weeded if the content is available 
elsewhere or if the material is in poor condition. Additionally, the Library may discard print 
materials that have been superseded by an electronic version either freely available or via a Library 
subscription/purchase. 
Typically, these may be transferred to a more appropriate collection within or outside the AUC subject to 
the terms of acquisition, University regulations, and national laws. 
 
Gifts and Donations 
The Library welcomes offers of gifts in kind of specialized scholarly content that are rare or unique, 
focused on Egypt, or relevant to the scholarly pursuits of AUC, according to the following guidelines. In 
particular, the Library actively seeks Arabic scholarly works not already held in the collection, and The 
Rare Books and Special Collections Library also solicits donations of books, archival collections (across 
formats including photographs, drawings, etc.), and other primary source items (including digital 
contributions). 
 
The Library evaluates and processes each category of donation independently: 
a) Collections specifically sought and requested by the AUC Library 
b) Gifts from AUC senior administrators 
c) Faculty parting with books or offering a small teaching collection 
d) Small collections of individual titles via Book Donation Request Form (less than 10 
volumes)(See Appendix B) 
 
Donations under categories a) and b) require the Deed of Gift agreement to be signed and formal 
discussion with Library personnel. 
Donations under categories c) and d) require a full title list and the Gift-In-Kind Authorization (see 
Appendix C) form to be signed. 
All gifts to the collection are evaluated prior to acceptance and the following key factors are considered in 
their evaluation: 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 18 
 
 
No duplication of current content. 
 
No textbooks. 
 
Relevancy for the purpose of study and research by the AUC community. 
 
Physical condition: Gifts that are moldy or dirty will not be accepted under any circumstances. If 
these are delivered to our premises, they will be destroyed. 
 
Language: the Library is English language primarily, with a secondary focus in Arabic. 
 
Availability on the market. 
 
Not acquire titles that are available free online (unless specifically Egypt related). 
 
Serials donations are rarely accepted unless filling in gaps, providing essential course resources, or 
Arabic content. 
The following considerations will apply to the acceptance of donations and gifts to the Library: 
 
The Library alone will decide whether the materials will be accepted and whether they will be 
placed in the Library or eventually discarded. 
 
The Library owns the right of ownership once gifts are donated by the donor.  
 
Donations are irrevocable. 
 
The Library may dispose of gifts to its best advantage. Such disposition may include: 
 
To retain the gift in the Library. 
 
To transfer it to other departments of the University. 
 
To donate gifts that are needed to other national libraries. 
 
To discard. 
 
A copy of the signed agreement will be emailed/posted to the donor. 
 
The AUC Library is not responsible for the physical delivery of the gift to the Library premises. 
 
Once accepted, the gift will be processed according to our standard procedures and will be added 
to the queue of cataloging priority.  
 
FORMATS 
Electronic Resources 
AUC Library is electronic preferred. Electronic resources are acquired selectively based on content 
relevancy to School programs, access, full image or full text, price, and ease of use. 
 
Content: governed by subject. Should enrich and/or complement the current collections or replace 
high use, difficult to acquire, or extremely expensive print alternatives. 
 
Access: IP access to the full database is preferred. Limited access, password access, or terminal-
specific access would only be acquired due to their unique content value. 
 
Image/text: Full image/text is preferred for electronic versions of print publications. 
 
Price: value for price, cooperative purchase prices, savings from print budgets, subscription vs. 
per use pricing, and net cost are considerations. 
 
Ease of use: Electronic resources vary widely in the interface provided. Some are available 
through other suppliers as well as from the original publisher. The interface should be user-
friendly, appropriate to AUC users’ competencies, and offer full access to the database's 
capabilities. 
Journals 
The Library acquires journals and newspapers in all formats (print, microform and electronic) through 
regular subscriptions and, rarely, through donations to meet the need of specific AUC School curriculum 
and research programs. As more journals become available online via databases, the trend is to discard 
their duplicates in print, unless their contents are related to Egypt or the Middle East. 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 18 
 
The Library provides selected newspapers with both international and national news coverage.  Several 
newspapers that have importance for permanent research value to students and faculty are recollected on 
microform unless an electronic version is available. Newspapers and magazines and other periodicals with 
historic or aesthetic value may be acquired for the RBSCL via transfer from the Main Library, purchase or 
donation, or accompanying acquired archival collections.  
Usage statistics and cost are two key factors in the continuation decision of both print & electronic 
continuations, though other factors are also taking into consideration. 
 
Special Collections: Archives and Rare Books and Related Holdings 
The Rare Books and Special Collections Library strives to build collections of both primary and 
secondary source materials that reflect the history, culture, arts, and society of Egypt and the region, 
through donation, purchase and subscription. Consideration is given to collection areas of other local 
institutions in making acquisitions; for example, the RBSCL does not collect at the most comprehensive 
level for archaeology due to the numerous other institutions in Cairo collecting focused on that subject. In 
addition, in some cases another institution may be a more appropriate repository for materials donated to 
AUC in which case they may be referred to that other, more appropriate repository.  
 
Subject/topical areas collected by the RBSCL include: 
. 
 
Architecture and the built environment 
 
AUC’s history and heritage  
 
Coptic Studies 
 
Economics and business history of Egypt 
 
Egyptology 
 
Ethnic, foreign, and religious sub-communities in Egypt 
 
Islamic Art and Architecture 
 
Travel literature of Egypt and the Middle East 
 
Visual arts of Egypt and the Middle East and other arts and culture, including cinema 
 
Women’s history, social change, government, and law  
RBSCL considers materials in a variety of formats for acquisition, including: 
 
 
Architectural Plans and Drawings 
 
Archives, including personal papers, manuscripts, and institutional AUC records (and records of 
other organizations possessing historic research value). Formats represented in this category may 
include text documents, correspondence, writings, publications, diaries, visual resources, and 
memorabilia and artifacts. Archival collections often encompass related visual material (like 
photographs and architectural plans) or audiovisual media. 
 
Artifacts, usually when accompanying an acquired archival collection. These may include 
documentation of an event (such as items connected with a major event like the January 25 
Revolution); professional tools (i.e. photographer’s equipment or architects’ models); evidence of 
artistic endeavors (like musical instruments); personal effects (such as eyeglasses); or furniture or 
decorative items (for example a writer’s desk or the statuary bust of a donor).  
 
Audiovisual materials, including legacy analog formats like 16mm reel-to-reel films, VHS video 
cassette tapes, audiocassette tapes, etc. (such material is digitized by the RBSCL). Audiovisual 
media already in digital format is also collected.   
 
Drawings, Sketches, and Posters, typically as part of a comprehensive archival collection or 
documentation of an event (like a political campaign) rather than as piecemeal items. 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 18 
 
 
Magazines, Periodicals, Journals. Contemporary materials in these areas are selected for 
documenting Egyptian and Middle Eastern society, culture, history, and archaeology, with special 
attention to supporting academic programs in Egyptology and Coptic Studies and Islamic Art and 
Architecture. Historic magazines and periodicals are also considered for purchase, accepted as 
donations, and transferred from the Main Library.  
 
Maps. These may include various formats such as sheet maps, atlases, topographic maps, 
insurance plans, tourism maps, etc.. 
 
Oral Histories, in audio or video format, with transcripts. Most are produced by RBSCL staff, but 
these may include oral histories received as donations from scholars, documentary institutions, and 
others. 
 
Photographs, across formats like prints, negatives, slides, photograph albums, postcards, and 
stereoscope cards, and digital images (scanned by a donor or produced originally as digital 
images).   
 
Rare Books and Special Book Collections: Books may be considered for addition to the library’s 
rare book collections based on factors like age, scarcity, aesthetic or artistic or artifactual worth, 
geographical origin, importance, or association (i.e., with important individuals or  institutions), 
taking into account how the item relates to the RBSCL’s subject and topical collecting areas. 
Books grouped as a special book collection, for example received from a donor or covering a 
particular topic (for example, translated works by an author) are also considered for acquisition.  
Materials in the above formats are also acquired by the RBSCL in digital form.  This may be through the 
digitizing of items lent to the library for that purpose with the originals not retained by RBSCL, or 
materials donated in “born-digital” form (i.e., the transfer of a collection of digital photographs, or 
acquisition of an item as a .pdf document, etc.). In addition, web archiving is pursued via a subscription 
to the Internet Archive’s ArchiveIt service, for capturing websites associated with AUC or that parallel 
the collecting areas (topics, subjects, etc.) covered earlier in this policy. 
 
Textbooks 
Textbooks are the responsibility of AUC Bookstore. However, the Library acquires one copy of every 
textbook available at the AUC Bookstore and places it on Reserve. Textbooks are removed from Reserve 
at the end of Semester and added to the regular collection. In addition, when informed, the Library will 
investigate the acquisition of electronic textbooks through usual vendors, but will not buy multiple 
electronic copies. It is important to note that many e-textbooks are currently unavailable to the Library. An 
electronic and a print copy is possible when both are available. 
 
AUC Theses and Other Theses 
All AUC graduate student Master’s degree theses and doctoral dissertations in digital form are uploaded to 
the online AUC Knowledge Fountain (“Fount”) digital repository and added to RBSCL digital storage 
(from Fall semester 2020 onward). The library also holds print copies of AUC graduate degree theses from 
1950 through the beginning of 2020. 
Additionally, the Library acquires selected unpublished theses and dissertations from Egyptian and 
international institutions that deal with subjects related to Egypt. The criteria for selecting material of this 
type is based on two main factors: 
 
Quality of theses or dissertations to support the research programs 
 
Need of theses or dissertations for particular projects conducted by AUC community 
All theses and dissertations, whether in digital or print or microforms, are cataloged. 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 18 
 
 
AUC Press and Faculty Publications 
AUC Library acquires on a regular basis two copies (preferably one online) of any publication published 
by the AUC Press or one copy for publications of faculty members during their tenure at the university. 
For AUC Press titles, a copy will be placed in the Main Library, and the other in the University Archives 
in the Rare Books and Special Collections Library. Faculty publications that appear in the form of 
unpublished dissertations, theses or articles in journals are not acquired unless their subject matter or topics 
relate to the instructional and research needs of the courses taught at the University, although these may be 
contained in archives of faculty acquired by the University Archives. Monographic gifts of faculty 
publications are also a welcome addition. 
  
SERVICES AND COLLABORATIONS 
 
Document Delivery 
The Main Library arranges resource-sharing agreements with other libraries to facilitate access to 
information for AUC faculty, students and other researchers. It is a member of the Research Library Group 
(RLG), and its SHARES program, which is an international alliance of over 160 members, including 
universities and colleges, national libraries, archives, historical societies, museum, and independent 
research collections, and public libraries. 
Reserve Services 
The Library’s Reserve policy aims at enabling the maximum number of students to access limited copies 
of course-assigned materials. Teaching faculty may provide their personal copies of books and articles, or 
request that books be transferred from the general Library collection to the Reserve Section. Articles that 
are needed for courses and are included in the journals that the Library owns may be photocopied and 
submitted at the Reserve Section. Books needed for placing on Reserve will be acquired as rush orders 
whenever possible. 
Reserve requests are processed in the order received. For detailed and current information on Reserve 
Procedures and Policies, see the AUC website. 
Other Institutions and Cooperative Agreements 
While the Library does not currently have formal cooperative collection development policies with other 
institutions, consideration may be given to collecting areas of other institutions, in order to avoid both 
duplication and to fill gaps in documentation.  
  
STAKEHOLDERS AND ROLES 
 
Library and Learning Technologies (LLT) Policy Makers and Selectors 
School Council: Approves the final Collection Development Policy by vote. 
Director of Collections: Coordinates Collection Development Policy and submits for approval to the LLT 
School Council. 
Faculty Library Liaisons: Provide feedback from faculty via regular meetings and correspondence. 
Conduct collection analysis in their respective fields and suggest purchases. 
Center for Excellence for Middle Eastern and Arab Cultures (CEMEAC): Center faculty and staff 
select material for purchase in all formats, in all subjects relevant to the Middle East and Arab Cultures. 
The AUC Library’s Center of Excellence for Middle Eastern Arab Cultures is dedicated to support the 
university’s interdisciplinary programs, and to embrace all disciplines in the humanities and the social 
sciences. It supports the curricula of Middle East Studies at the undergraduate and graduate levels, faculty, 
and scholars from the international academic community. It is intended to promote the study of the Middle 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 18 
 
East and Arab history, culture and heritage in a larger number of academic departments, and to facilitate 
the flow of information about them at the AUC, in the Egyptian and Arab world communities, and beyond. 
Selectors and Selection Committees: The Library designates Subject Librarians and curators to select 
content for inclusion in the AUC Library Collection. Committees are formed for the purpose of evaluating 
some resources/purchases, either on an ad hoc manner or more permanently (e.g. Electronic Resources 
Committee). The Library also liaises with Faculty Library Liaisons from each department within the AUC 
Schools.  
Rare Books and Special Collections Library (RBSCL): Faculty and staff select (in collaboration with 
other Library personnel) appropriate materials for RBSCL collections. 
University Archives and Records Management: Faculty and staff appraise and coordinate transfer of 
appropriate material. 
  
Users 
AUC Faculty: All faculty may request scholarly resources for teaching, learning and research. These will 
be acquired in line with this policy. 
AUC Students: All students may request scholarly resources in line with this policy, however, these 
requests will be evaluated by AUC librarians and the relevant Faculty may also be consulted.  
AUC Alumni: Purchase requests from Alumni are not acquired unless they are supported by current 
faculty members or meet the selection criteria and are approved by an LLT Subject Specialist. Access to 
electronic resources is from on campus only. 
External Users: Purchase requests from external users are not acquired. Access to electronic resources is 
from within the Library building only. 
 
 
VI. 
FORMS/INSTRUCTIONS (if applicable) 
 
 
Appendix A: Resource Request Form 
Appendix B: Gifts-in-Kind Book Donations Form 
Appendix C: Donations Authorization Form 
Appendix D: EResource Problem Form 
Appendix E: Deed of Gift Agreement 
Appendix F: Conspectus of Disciplines of Collecting 
 
VII. 
APPENDICES (if applicable) 
 
 
Attached 
 
 
VIII. 
CONTACT INFORMATION 
 
 
Contact: Director for Collections, LLT 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 18 
 
Appendix A: Resource Request Form 
 
See link: https://forms.aucegypt.edu/library/bookrequestform.html 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 18 
 
Appendix B: Gifts-in-Kind Book Donations Form 
 
UPDATED: 
 
Gifts‐in‐Kind Book Donation Form 
 
The Library welcomes offers of gifts in kind of specialized scholarly content that are rare or unique, 
focused on Egypt, or relevant to the scholarly pursuits of AUC, according to the following guidelines. In 
particular, the Library actively seeks Arabic scholarly works not already held in the collection. 
 
Please fill this form, after reading our Gift-In-Kind policies below, if you wish to donate books to the 
Library. 
 
Donors Information 
*    First Name: 
*    Phone Number: 
 
*    Surname: 
*    Email Address: 
 
 
Donated Book title details 
# Title of Book Author Name Publication Date 
ISBN 
 
1‐ 
 
2‐ 
 
3‐ 
 
4‐ 
 
5‐ 
 
6‐ 
 
7‐ 
 
8‐ 
 
9‐ 
 
10‐ 
 
Additional information 
 
Submit 
I'm not a robot 
reCAPTCHA 
Privacy - Terms 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 18 
 
Gifts-in-Kind Policy 
 
All gifts to the collection are evaluated prior to acceptance and the following key factors are considered in 
their evaluation: 
 
No duplication of current content. 
 
No textbooks. 
 
Relevancy for the purpose of study and research by the AUC community. 
 
Physical condition: Gifts that are moldy or dirty will not be accepted under any circumstances. If 
these are delivered to our premises, they will be destroyed. 
 
Language: The Library is English language primarily, with a secondary focus in Arabic. 
 
Availability on the market. 
 
Not acquire titles that are available free online (unless specifically Egypt related). 
 
Serials donations are rarely accepted unless filling in gaps, providing essential course resources, or 
Arabic content. 
The following considerations will apply to the acceptance of donations and gifts to the Library: 
 
The Library alone will decide whether the materials will be accepted and whether they will be 
placed in the Library or eventually discarded. 
 
The Library owns the right of ownership once gifts are donated by the donor.  
 
Donations are irrevocable. 
 
The Library may dispose of gifts to its best advantage. Such disposition may include: 
 
To retain the gift in the Library. 
 
To transfer it to other departments of the University. 
 
To donate gifts that are needed to other national libraries. 
 
To discard. 
 
A copy of the signed agreement will be emailed/posted to the donor. 
 
The AUC Library is not responsible for the physical delivery of the gift to the Library premises. 
 
Once accepted, the gift will be processed according to our standard procedures and will be added 
to the queue of cataloging priority. 
  
AUC Libraries Gifts-in-Kind Policy is in accordance, and comes under, the AUC Gift Acceptance 
Policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 13 of 18 
 
Appendix C: Donations Authorization 
AUC MAIN LIBRARY GIFT-IN-KIND AUTHORISATION 
The Library welcomes offers of gifts-in-kind of specialized scholarly content that are rare or unique, 
focused on Egypt, or relevant to the scholarly pursuits of AUC, according to the following guidelines. In 
particular, the Library actively seeks Arabic scholarly works not already held in the collection. 
This Authorization is for small collections of books and is required signed after the donor has read the 
Gift-In-Kind policies below. 
All gifts-in-kind to the collection are evaluated prior to acceptance and the following key factors are 
considered in their evaluation: 
 
No duplication of current content. 
 
No textbooks. 
 
Relevancy for the purpose of study and research by the AUC community. 
 
Physical condition: Gifts that are moldy or dirty will not be accepted under any circumstances. If 
these are delivered to our premises, they will be destroyed. 
 
Language: the Library is English language primarily, with a secondary focus in Arabic. 
 
Availability on the market. 
 
Not acquire titles that are available free online (unless specifically Egypt related). 
 
Serials donations are rarely accepted unless filling in gaps, providing essential course resources, or 
Arabic content. 
The following considerations will apply to the acceptance of gifts-in-kind to the Library: 
 
The Library alone will decide whether the materials will be accepted and whether they will be 
placed in the Library or eventually discarded. 
 
The Library owns the right of ownership once gifts are donated by the donor.  
 
Donations are irrevocable. 
 
The Library may dispose of gifts to its best advantage. Such disposition may include: 
 
To retain the gift in the Library. 
 
To transfer it to other departments of the University. 
 
To donate gifts that are needed to other national libraries. 
 
To discard. 
 
A copy of the signed agreement will be emailed/posted to the donor. 
 
The AUC Library is not responsible for the physical delivery of the gift to the Library premises. 
 
Once accepted, the gift will be processed according to our standard procedures and will be added 
to the queue of cataloging priority.  
 
I have read and accept the AUC Library Gift-In-Kind Policy as stated above: 
Name and Signature of donor: ________________________________________________________     
 
Email address:   ____________________________________________________________________ 
 
Mailing Address: ___________________________________________________________________ 
 
Phone (optional): __________________________       
 
Date:  _______________________ 
 
AUC Libraries Gifts-in-Kind Policy is in accordance with, and comes under, the AUC Gift Acceptance 
Policy. 
 
 
 
 
Page 14 of 18 
 
Appendix D: EResources Problem Form 
 
See link:  
https://www4.aucegypt.edu/LibraryForms/EResourcesProblemForm.aspx 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 15 of 18 
 
Appendix E: Deed of Gift Agreement 
 
DEED OF GIFT 
Website://library.aucegypt.edu Telephone: +202-2615 2360 
Email: agreements.LLT@aucegypt.edu, Dean.LLT@aucegypt.edu 
 
I/We, the undersigned Donor(s), hereby donate and convey to The American University in Cairo 
and the AUC Library (“AUC Library”), subject to the Terms and Conditions attached hereto, all 
rights, title and interest that I possess in the physical and/or digital materials described in Section 
2 of this Deed of Gift.  
 
1. DONOR INFORMATION  
Name: ________________________________________________________________________  
Permanent Address: _____________________________________________________________  
City/Governorate or State/Country/Postal Code: _______________________________________  
Telephone Number(s): ___________________________________________________________  
Email: ________________________________________________________________________  
Name of spouse or other relevant relative (if any): _____________________________________  
Relationship of Donor to creator of the materials (if you are acting on behalf of someone else):  
______________________________________________________________________________  
 
2. DESCRIPTION OF MATERIALS DONATED (Attach additional pages if needed)  
______________________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________________ 
______________________________________________________________________________  
______________________________________________________________________________  
󠄥 Check here if material is to be digitized by the Library with original item(s) to be returned to 
donor.  
 
3. TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP  
I understand that upon signing the Deed of Gift, the materials described above become the legal 
property of The American University in Cairo Library. This deed will also serve to convey any 
further gifts of materials that I wish to make at a later date, with each gift to be described in an 
addendum.  
Date(s) AUC Library took possession of material: __________________________________  
 
4. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS  
A. Intellectual Property Rights. This section deals with copyrights, literary rights, artistic rights, 
or patents (collectively, “Intellectual Property Rights”) that may be associated with the donated 
material.  
󠄥 I hold the Intellectual Property Rights in some or all of the donated materials. Please indicate 
below or on a separate page the materials for which you control the Intellectual Property Rights 
and the nature of your rights, for example copyright, sole/joint owner, heir, etc.  
__________________________________________________________________  
󠄥 I do not hold Intellectual Property Rights in any of the donated materials. AUC Library Deed 
of Gift Page 2  
 
 
 
 
Page 16 of 18 
 
B. Intellectual Property Rights Transfer. If you have indicated that you own the intellectual 
property rights in some or all of the donated materials, please check one only of the following 
boxes.  
󠄥 I wish to transfer, convey and assign to AUC Library all Intellectual Property Rights that I 
control in the above-described materials, subject to the exceptions or limitations, if any, stated 
below:  
______________________________________________________________________________  
󠄥 I do not wish to transfer Intellectual Property Rights, but I give permission for the AUC Library 
for scholarship and research purposes to make copies for users, display in physical exhibitions, or 
make available digitally online. Any other rights conveyed to AUC are indicated as follows:  
______________________________________________________________________________  
 
5. TREATMENT OF THE MATERIALS, REMOVED MATERIAL, AND 
REAPPRAISAL  
• The Library will preserve, apply conservation care, arrange, describe, and catalog the materials 
in accordance with standard library/archival processing procedures. Materials will be maintained 
in secure, climate controlled storage locations, as feasible.  
• Items not retained during processing or future reappraisal by AUC Library shall be (check one):  
Discarded or transferred at AUC Library’s discretion  
Returned to me Other (describe):  
______________________________________________________________________________  
 
6. ACCESS TO AND USE OF THE MATERIALS  
• Materials will be open for research. Researchers will use physical items in supervised reading 
rooms. Materials may be reproduced and provided to researchers in limited quantities.  
• Materials may be digitized and made available online via the Library’s approved online internet 
platforms. Physical items may be displayed, as originals or reproductions, in exhibitions.  
• Sensitive materials that I identify at the time of donation, or that are discovered by Library staff 
during processing, may be restricted to protect my privacy or that of others, for a limited and 
clearly stated period of time. AUC Library may implement other restrictions in accordance with 
its policies. If any restrictions are desired, please indicate which materials and the period of 
restriction:  
__________________________________________________________________  
 
7. SIGNATURES  
This form constitutes a full agreement by and between the undersigned parties. No amendments, 
deletions or modifications to this agreement shall be valid unless stated in writing and signed by 
the undersigned parties. I understand and agree to the terms and conditions described herein.  
Donor Name: __________________________________________________________  
Signature: _________________________________________ Date:  
I accept this gift on behalf of the AUC Library.  
Representative of AUC and/or AUC Libraries and Learning Technologies:  
Name and Position: _______________________________________________________  
Signature: __________________________________________ Date:  
 
 
 
 
Page 17 of 18 
 
Terms and Conditions 
The purpose of the Deed of Gift is to assist AUC Library staff in determining your decisions as a 
donor and to establish a legal transfer of ownership of the property/materials. The AUC Library 
has accepted Donor’s gift of the material (and, if applicable, Intellectual Property Rights) listed 
above, subject to the following terms and conditions:  
 
1. By execution of the Deed of Gift, the Donor expressly represents and warrants to the AUC 
Library that he or she is the sole lawful owner of title to the property/material or that Donor is fully 
authorized by such owner to enter into this Deed of Gift. The Donor further represents that the 
property/materials is free and clear from any and all encumbrances, that there has been no prior 
pledge, option or gift of any part thereof to any person, and that Donor has the right to give or 
transfer the property/materials which shall occur upon delivery to AUC Library. Upon transfer to 
the AUC Library, the property/material is granted irrevocably and absolutely to the AUC Library.  
2. The donated property/materials must be appropriate to the mission and needs of the American 
University in Cairo.  
3. The date of the transfer will be at the date the donor and the representative of AUC Library have 
signed this agreement, or the date mentioned in section #3 above.  
4. Donor acknowledges that upon execution of this Deed of Gift, the property/materials irrevocably 
become the property of AUC Library. The display, use, maintenance, and disposition of the 
Property are at AUC Library’s sole discretion.  
5. Donor represents and warrants that no customs laws, tax laws, laws of inheritance, or other laws 
or regulations applicable to the property/materials, its export or import, have been broken.  
6. Donor represents and warrants that there are no claims, judgments, liens or other encumbrances 
of any kind whatsoever against the property/materials, any portion of the property/materials, or 
title to it.  
7. AUC works in compliance with United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations, 
Egyptian law and acceptable business practices. AUC Library does not advise donors on tax 
matters and suggests that Donor direct any questions regarding donations as charitable 
contributions to the Donor’s tax advisor or lawyer. AUC Library does not appraise donations but 
will make the property/materials available for appraisal upon the request of Donor at the Donor’s 
expense.  
8. Donor will defend, indemnify, and hold AUC Library harmless from claims or allegations 
arising from or relating to conduct that would be a breach of the Donor’s warranties or 
representations herein if established.  
9. Property/materials may be digitized and displayed on the Internet as the AUC Library deems 
appropriate. AUC Library is authorized to display or loan any donated property/materials for 
exhibitions both on and off campus. Property/materials may be reproduced in publications.  
10. In case of property/materials that requires additional cost for preservation beyond AUC Library 
budget, AUC Library will discuss the preservation cost with the Donor for Donor’s contribution. 
If agreement does not reach between both parties, AUC Library retains the right not to accept the 
transfer of ownership of property/materials.  
11. It is further agreed and understood that the AUC Library shall incur no financial encumbrances 
of any kind with this gift. Donor receives no direct benefit and requires nothing in exchange 
beyond an assurance that the intent of the contribution will be recognized and honored. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 18 of 18 
 
Appendix F: Conspectus of Disciplines of Collecting 
See Shared Document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1G-
RbGTiydvLGIJvEv7pMAyrsPV6s3vjIufyS1h5R-Y8/edit?usp=sharing 
 

Page 1 of 3  
Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Policy 
     Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Policy 
 
Policy Title 
Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Policy 
Policy Owner  
Chief Compliance Officer 
Policy Section 
Governance, Ethics, and General Policies 
Responsible Office   
Office of the General Counsel and Compliance 
Contact Information 
Questions about Policy content should be directed to the 
Office of the General Counsel and Compliance 
Pertinent Dates  
This Policy was adopted on May 8, 2013 and approved  
on July 24, 2020 
Entities Affected 
All units of the University 
Who Needs to Know About This Policy  
All University employees 
Related Information  
COI/COC Disclosure Form 
Abstract  
This Policy helps employees and others engaged in University 
business to identify, disclose, and manage actual, perceived (or 
apparent), or potential conflicts of interest between their 
interests and their University duty or responsibilities. 
 
 
I. SCOPE OF POLICY 
This Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Policy applies to all University employees.  This Policy continues 
to apply to employees while on sabbatical or other leaves or on vacation, while visiting other institutions, and 
while consulting with external entities or individuals.  The objective of this policy is to help employees and 
others engaged in University business to identify, disclose and manage actual, perceived (or apparent), or 
potential conflicts of interest between their interests and their University duty or responsibilities. Key officers 
and employees should also reference the “Conflicts of Interest Policy for Trustees, Officers, and Key 
Employees.” 
 
II. DEFINITIONS 
As used in this Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Policy, the following terms shall have the meanings 
indicated below. 
 
A. “Employees” means all faculty (including part-time and visiting faculty), staff and other employees, 
postdoctoral scholars, and students (including graduate students) employed or otherwise engaged by the 
University. 
B. “Family members” for purposes of this policy are defined as all relatives, such as, but not limited to the 
following: spouses, relatives by marriage, domestic partners, children (including step-children and foster 
children), parents, step-parents, grandparents, grandchildren, in-laws, siblings (including step-brothers and 
step-sisters), cousins, nieces, nephews, aunts and uncles, or any member of one’s household. 
C. “Associate” is any individual or organization with whom an Employee has a close personal or business 
relationship such that a benefit to the associate could be construed as a personal favor by the Employee 
and/or an indirect benefit to the Employee personally or the Employee’s family member (for example, in 
the case of a business in which family members of an Employee have a significant financial interest). 
 
Page 2 of 3  
Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Policy 
III. POLICY STATEMENT 
University Employees conducting University business shall always act and make all decisions in a manner that 
promotes the best interests of the University. All Employees have an obligation to address both the substance 
and the appearance of conflicts of interest and commitment and, if they arise, to disclose them immediately in 
writing to their supervisor and the Compliance Office at ComplianceOffice@aucegypt.edu. They must also 
immediately record and report to their supervisor and the Compliance Office at 
ComplianceOffice@aucegypt.edu their withdrawal and recusal from debate, voting, or decision-making process 
where a conflict of interest exists or might arise.  Managers/supervisors, department chairs, and deans who 
become aware that Employees under their supervision have conflicts of interest or commitment covered by 
this Policy are obligated to ensure that the conflict is appropriately disclosed and managed. 
A. Conflicts of Interest  
1. A conflict of interest arises when an Employee might be able to use the authority of his or her 
University position to: 
a) Influence the University's business decisions in ways to give improper advantage or financial 
benefit to oneself, a family member or associate, or 
b) Obtain for oneself, a family member, or an associate a financial benefit beyond the 
compensation he or she is authorized to receive for performing his or her University 
responsibilities. 
2. The following constitute prohibited conflict of interest: 
a) Personal and/or Familial Relationships in the Workplace: 
No Employee of the University may participate in decisions involving a direct benefit (e.g., initial 
employment, salary, work assignments, performance evaluations, etc.) to family members.  See 
University Policy on Non-Fraternization and Familial Relationships. 
b) Business Decisions:  
Employees must not make or influence business decisions, including executing purchasing 
agreements or other types of contracts, from which they, a family member, or an associate may 
personally benefit. Employees who stand to gain from a particular contract must identify the 
situation to their supervisors or directors immediately. 
c) Use of University Resources and Name: 
The use of University resources (e.g., telephones, fax and copy machines, campus mail, computers 
and time, staff, office and classroom space, supplies, vehicles, postage, etc.) which results in 
personal and/or financial gain to an Employee, a family member, or an associate represents a 
conflict. University resources should be generally used exclusively for University business, with only 
approved diminutive exceptions for personal use. For example, the occasional use of University 
phones or internet services at no cost or little cost to the University, for personal communications, 
may be acceptable.  Furthermore, the use of the University name and seal by Employees other than 
in the context of their responsibilities at the University is prohibited. 
d) Gifts and Gratuities: 
Employees are prohibited from soliciting personal gifts and favors from a vendor, contractor, 
donor, student, parent, or subordinate. Accepting gifts is also prohibited in most circumstances. 
Gifts valued in excess of EGP 500 or of undetermined value, if not applied for a University 
purpose or shared widely, should be returned immediately to the donor, or, in certain cases where 
risk of offense may impact AUC interests, the recipient shall transfer the property to the President’s 
Office for appropriate AUC use and recording.  
Page 3 of 3  
Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Policy 
Gifts of promotional items without significant value and that are routinely distributed by vendors to 
clients (e.g. calendars, pens, books, tote bags, T-shirts) may be accepted. Ordinary business 
courtesies, such as payment for a modest lunch or dinner are also acceptable. Gratuities or gifts of 
money, whatever the amount, may not be accepted at any time without the written approval of the 
General Counsel, President, or designated compliance officer.  Employees must also consider and 
comply with AUC’s Code of Ethical Conduct in accepting any gift, ordinary business courtesies or 
gratuities, regardless of the value.  Employees should discuss any gifts or proposed gifts with their 
supervisors prior to acceptance.  Employees should refer to the Code of Ethical Conduct for 
AUC’s policy regarding offering gifts and gratuities. 
e) Significant Financial Interests:  
Employees must disclose their (or their family member’s) significant financial interests in any entity 
that they may be reasonably expected to know to conduct business with the University, directly or 
indirectly. Two types of significant financial interest:  
i. 
Receipt of anything of monetary value from a single source exceeding EGP 7500 
annually. Examples include salary, royalties, gifts, and payments for services including 
consulting fees and honoraria. 
ii. 
Ownership of an equity interest exceeding 20% or EGP 10,000 in any single entity. 
3. Perceived Conflicts of Interest: In addition to refraining from prohibited activities, Employees must 
disclose any activity, relationship, or interest that is, or may be perceived to be, a conflict of interest 
so that these activities, relationships, and interests can be managed properly. 
B. Conflicts of Commitment: 
A conflict of commitment occurs when a commitment to activities outside of the Employee’s University 
responsibilities interferes with his/her capacity to meet the University responsibilities.  In the case of 
administrative officers and members of the staff, the time allowed for service to other organizations 
depends on the person's job responsibilities and his or her supervisor's expectations for that Employee's 
level of involvement with professional and community organizations.  All Employees must disclose any 
outside activity that is, or may be perceived to be, a conflict of commitment so that their supervisor and 
the designated University compliance officer may manage these activities properly.  
 
IV. POLICY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES 
All Employees must complete the University’s COI/COC Disclosure Form upon hire and annually, as 
administered by HR. By completing this form, Employees confirm that they have read, understood, and 
committed to this Policy and that they will disclose potential or actual conflicts as they arise. Disclosure forms 
should be submitted to HR, and, if a potential conflict is reported, HR will refer the form to the Compliance 
Office for possible mitigation and resolution. The Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Disclosure Form can 
be found on AUC’s HR website. 
A. University administrators are responsible for promoting the understanding of and compliance with the 
University's Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Policy. Employees are obligated to resolve any 
conflicts of interest or commitment through disclosure and cooperation with University officers 
charged with administering this policy. The University may impose sanctions, up to and including 
dismissal, for failure to comply with this policy. 
B. Policy Administration: Responsibility for administering the University's Conflicts of Interest and 
Commitment Policy shall rest with the President or his/her designees for all Employees. The President 
hereby designates the General Counsel as the overall custodian of the Conflicts of Interest and 
Commitment Policy and the management of disclosed conflicts, if necessary. and designates HR as 
responsible for ensuring that all employees disclose upon hire and annually. 

1 of 4 
Contract Administration and Signature Authority Policy 
Contract Administration and Signature Authority Policy 
 
Policy Title 
Contract Administration and Signature Authority Policy 
Policy Owner  
Chief Financial Officer 
Policy Section 
Financial, Procurement, Contracting, and General Business 
Policies 
Responsible Office   
Office of Budget and Financial Planning 
Contact Information 
Questions about Policy content should be directed to the 
Office of Budget and Financial Planning 
Pertinent Dates  
This Policy was approved on July 24, 2020 
Entities Affected 
All units of the University 
Who Needs to Know About This Policy  
All members of the AUC community 
Related Information  
Annual Delegation of Authority 
Abstract  
This Policy provides guidance to the University community on 
the need for written agreements, as well as the signature 
authority, review processes, and recordkeeping for all executed 
contracts involving University resources. 
 
I. SCOPE OF POLICY 
 
The Contract Administration Signature Authority Policy (the “Policy”) applies to all University faculty and 
staff employees, students, and student organizations who enter into any type of agreement (whether 
previously oral or written and includes employment contracts, labor agreements, research funding 
agreements, or donor agreements among others) that obligates the University to provide payment, services, 
goods, or use of University physical or intellectual property, facilities or other resources, including 
University brand identification such as logos or mascots, to a third party. 
 
Contractual agreements governed by this Policy include, but are not limited to, leases, purchase orders, 
design/engineering/construction contracts, employment agreements, service and consulting agreements, 
grants, revenue contracts, affiliation agreements (hereafter identified as “contracts”), and contracts that 
obligate University funds to pay for other services, such as speakers, bands, research projects, etc., including 
circumstances where the agreements are for the benefit of a student organization, faculty member, or 
academic department.  
 
Signatory authority for all banking and other financial transactions at designated levels shall be authorized 
and outlined by a Board of Trustees Financial Transactions Authority resolution, which may be amended 
from time to time. 
 
II. DEFINITIONS 
 
There are no definitions applicable to this Policy.  
 
III. POLICY STATEMENT 
 
The University, through faculty, staff, students, and student organizations, enters into hundreds of 
contractual agreements each year with third parties that involve a wide array of activities, including services, 
consulting, maintenance, supplies, performances, facilities use, construction, research, and publications, 
among others. This Policy provides guidance to the University community on the need for written 
agreements, as well as the signature authority, review processes, and recordkeeping for all executed 
contractual agreements involving University resources. The Policy may be modified from time to time by 
2 of 4 
Contract Administration and Signature Authority Policy 
the offices of the President and/or Vice President for Finance and CFO, in consultation with the General 
Counsel.   
 
Nothing in this Policy shall be deemed to override the authority granted by the Bylaws to the 
Board of Trustees, its established committees, and specific officers of the University.   
 
IV. POLICY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES  
 
A.  Board of Trustee Approval for Real Estate Transactions 
 
The University’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws reserve to the Board of Trustees the authority 
to approve in advance any contract that obligates AUC to sell any real estate that is a part of the campus, 
owned by the University, or will be used by the University. Any such contracts should be signed by the 
University’s President once approved in accordance with the University By-laws.  
 
B. Presidential Authority and Responsibility for all Other Contractual Obligations  
 
The President, as the chief executive officer of the University, has the authority and responsibility to 
sign all other contracts, deeds, or leases for which funds are available in the approved budget or other 
approved sources up to the amount of $250,000. The President may delegate his authority and 
responsibility as described below, to the noted financial or academic officer. No other officer, faculty 
or staff employee, student, or student organization, has the authority to bind or otherwise obligate the 
University without the express, specific written consent of the President or an authorized delegate.  
 
By delegation from the President, the Chief Financial Officer has the authority and responsibility to 
sign all deeds, leases, and contracts arising out of the legitimate business operations of the University 
for which funds are available in the approved budget or other approved sources up to the amount of 
$250,000.  The Chief Financial Officer may further delegate this authority in writing subject to the 
President’s annual approval of a written table of delegations to valued individual officers of the 
University, including other officers of VP or “cabinet” rank; with such signed approval to be appended 
to this policy statement and updated annually, and upon changes in named positions. 
 
By delegation from the President, the Provost has the authority and responsibility to sign all contracts 
arising out of the legitimate academic operations of the University for which funds are available in the 
approved budget or other approved sources. The Provost may further delegate this authority in writing 
subject to the President’s annual approval of a written table of delegations to named subordinate 
employees in the academic area; with such signed approval to be appended to this policy statement and 
updated annually upon changes in named positions.  
 
C. Delegation of Contracting Authority  
 
Delegations of contracting authority are prohibited, except where specifically authorized in this Policy.  
The delegating official retains ultimate responsibility for matters and personnel under his/her 
supervision. An individual who has not received a written delegation of authority to sign contracts 
should not sign agreements that purport to bind the University, and may be held personally responsible 
if s/he attempts to do so. AUC retains the authority not to recognize an agreement as binding against 
the University unless all signatories to the agreement have proper contract authority as of the date the 
contract was entered.  
 
All delegations of contracting authority should: 1) be in writing; 2) be made to specific position titles, 
not named individuals; 3) indicate the scope of the delegation (i.e., a specific contract/vendor only, 
contracts under a certain dollar amount, etc.); 4) specify the need for advance review by the Office of 
General Counsel and other relevant departments for particular contracts, vendors, or other unique 
situations different from those generally set out in Section IV of this Policy; 5) indicate whether further 
written delegation is permitted; and 6) be copied and maintained in the offices of both parties, with a 
copy sent to the offices of General Counsel and the Controller. Unless otherwise specified, delegated 
3 of 4 
Contract Administration and Signature Authority Policy 
contracting authority will remain in effect until revoked in writing, with a copy sent to the offices of 
General Counsel and the Controller. These delegations are specified in the University’s Annual 
Delegation of Authority which can be found on the University’s Policy Website. 
 
D. Conflict of Interest  
 
University officials with contract authority must exercise that authority in a manner consistent with the      
University’s Conflict of Interest Policy for Trustees, Officers, and Key Employees and the University’s 
Conflicts of Interest and Commitment Policy for faculty and staff.   
 
E.  Importance of Written Contracts and Advance Review 
  
1. Written Contracts 
 
All contracts with third parties involving University resources should be in writing, regardless 
of prior practice or prior business relationships with the person or entity. Procurement of any 
services or goods on behalf of the University must be conducted in accordance with policies 
and procedures approved by the Procurement Office. 
 
2. Advance Review by Relevant Department(s) 
 
All contracts (including contract renewals and contracts memorializing prior practice or prior 
business relationships) should be reviewed and approved in advance by other departments that 
will need to provide technical support, facilities, or personnel to carry out the contract. For 
example, a software contract should be reviewed by Information Technology Services (ITS) 
to determine whether AUC can support the software.  
 
3. Advance Review by the Office of General Counsel 
 
All contracts (including contract renewals and contracts memorializing prior practice or prior 
business relationships) requiring the University to pay out more than $10,000 or the equivalent 
in EGP within a single transaction or single 12-month period, and all contracts involving 
unique risks and liability to the University (regardless of the monetary amount of the contract) 
must be reviewed and approved by the Office of General Counsel before submission to the 
authorized official for signature. Procurement of goods and services with University resources 
must be reviewed and approved in accordance with procurement policies. Exceptions to this 
advance review requirement are purchase orders and contracts using templates previously 
approved by the Office of General Counsel. All contracts should be sent electronically in 
Microsoft Word format (not in “pdf” format) to the Office of General Counsel, with a copy 
to the University official authorized to sign the contract at least five (5) business days to allow 
for adequate time to review.  
 
4. Standard Contract or Agreement Templates 
 
Departments may develop a standard form contract or letter agreement for particular types of 
transactions, particular vendors, etc. for approval by the Office of General Counsel. The 
Office of General Counsel will work with departments to develop such standard forms. If 
approved, the department may use such form agreements without individual review by the 
Office of General Counsel, so long as it is used for the particular type and value level of 
transaction and/or vendor for which its use has been approved. The Office of General 
Counsel’s blanket approval for such forms will expire not more than three years from the date 
of last previous recorded approval, or upon the contracting officers or General Counsel’s 
awareness of material changes in circumstances such as AUC policy, or applicable laws or 
regulations.  
 
F. Recordkeeping 
4 of 4 
Contract Administration and Signature Authority Policy 
 
Contracting offices must promptly provide executed original contracts, including leases and purchase 
orders, to the Procurement Office and/or the Controller’s Office for purposes of recordkeeping, audit 
reporting, and execution of disbursements. The University official executing the contract is responsible 
for keeping a copy of the executed contract, including all attachments, and providing the original and 
any amended versions of the executed contract to the Office of General Counsel. Original contracts 
of over $50,000 either purchasing or selling must be stored with the Office of the General Counsel. 
Copies should be provided to the Procurement Office and the Controller’s Office.  
 


 
 
Policy Title 
Currency and Exchange Rate of Tuition Payment and 
Refund 
 
Responsible University Office   
Accounts Receivables Office 
Policy Owner  
Ms. Amira Gaber – Acting Senior Director – Accounts 
Receivables 
Pertinent Dates  
This policy was revised in June 2021 and approved to be 
applied effective Fall 2021. 
 
 
I. 
SCOPE OF POLICY 
 
 
Currency and Exchange Rate of Tuition Payment and Refund Policy is applied to all AUC community, 
faculty, staff, and students. Also, the Audit teams, and Regulatory Bodies in both Egypt and United States 
should know this policy.  
 
This policy provides guidance to all AUC community by sitting currency and exchange rate rules for 
tuition payments and refunds for both students and departments.   
 
 
II. 
DEFINITIONS 
 
 
There are no definitions applicable to this policy.  
 
 
III. 
POLICY STATEMENT 
 
 
The policy is to specify currencies and exchange rates rules for tuition payments and refunds.  
 
This document will be revised and supplemented, as required, to meet new needs and conditions. Revised 
pages will be sent to all holders who are responsible for keeping the manual current.   
  
An important part of this updating process depends on the constructive comments, information, and 
suggestions received from you, the users. Your comments are highly appreciated.   
 
 
IV. 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
 
This policy must be implemented by all AUC community, faculty, staff and students.  
 
 
 
 
 
V. 
POLICY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES 
 
 
• 
Egyptian students may pay the US dollar portion in Egyptian Pounds according to the CIB 
prevailing rate at the day of payment; for international students, tuition MUST be paid in U.S 
dollars. 
 
• 
Refunds of credit balances will be disbursed in the same currency as original payment using the 
same exchange rate of payments. Previous rule is also applied for credit balance transfer from 
USD to EGP for the same student or his/her siblings. Transferring credit balance to student`s 
siblings has to be approved by student who have the credit balance.     
 
• 
Tuition fees are charged at a set annual rate and are calculated in respect of the number of credits 
being studied and the student level (under graduate, graduate or non-degree student). 
 
• 
Tuition fees are subject to the annual increases percentage as determined by AUC Board of 
Trustees. 
 
 
VI. 
FORMS/INSTRUCTIONS (if applicable) 
 
 
There are no forms applicable to this policy. 
 
VII. 
APPENDICES (if applicable) 
 
 
There are no appendices applicable to this policy.  
 
 
VIII. 
CONTACT INFORMATION 
 
 
If you have any questions or concerns relative to either policy or procedures, please call 
  
1. Ms. Amira Gaber – Acting Senior Director – Accounts Receivables, Ext: 2339 
  
or send an e-mail to amira_hg@aucegypt.edu   
  
2. Mr. Mohamed El Sergany – Director - Student Accounting, Ext: 2448  
or send an e-mail to msergany@aucegypt.edu   
 
 

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
  
Cyber Security Incident Response Policy • Page 1 of 5  
October 2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: Cyber Security Incident Response Policy – October 2022   
  
Approval date: January 2018  
  
Purpose of document: This document addresses the management of cybersecurity incidents 
affecting AUC assets and services   
  
Office/department responsible: Office of Information Security  
  
Approved by: Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
  
Document classification level: PUBLIC  
  
Document accessible: [ https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies ]  
  
Document includes: [Policy]   
  
Related documents/see also: [ Information Security Policy, Acceptable Usage Policy ]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
Cyber Security Incident Response Policy  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
Cyber Security incidents that may occur to AUC assets and services must be reported to the 
appropriate teams only. Relevant communication to parties other than AUC responsible 
teams must be restricted. AUC encourages the community to report any suspicious incident 
and will protect the whistleblower's identity.   
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
This policy defines the ways that AUC faculty, staff, students, and other third parties doing 
work for AUC, must respond to a cybersecurity incident.   
  
The policy defines relevant responsibilities. The policy acknowledges that a quick, effective, 
practiced, and orderly response is a critical determinant of an incident's outcome. The 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
  
Cyber Security Incident Response Policy • Page 2 of 5  
underlying motivation for this policy is to help assure that AUC information systems 
continue to be trustworthy, available, and reliable.   
  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
 
Entire AUC community, including whoever has access to AUC digital resources like visitors, 
contractors, consultants, …etc. 
  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk Officer 
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security  
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an e-mail to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
  
Cyber Security Incident Response Policy • Page 3 of 5  
 
Definitions  
 
  
Term (alphabetical order)  
Definition as it relates to this policy  
cybersecurity incident  
Any information systems-related event involving a violation of 
the law or a violation of AUC security policy. Such an incident 
may alternatively involve any significant disruption of AUC 
production information systems or any information systems-
related event that seriously jeopardizes the security or privacy 
of AUC property or interests. An incident may alternatively 
involve the information-systems-related compromise of the 
welfare of AUC community, customers, business partners, or 
stakeholders. Examples of cybersecurity incidents include 
hacker intrusions, virus infestations, website defacements, and 
denial of service attacks.  
  
AUC Community  
Includes faculty, staff, students, alumni, donors, and whoever 
has access to AUC digital resources  
Advanced Information 
Security Operation Center 
Team(AISOC),  
Group of skilled information technology specialists who have 
been designated as the ones to take action in response to reports 
of cybersecurity incidents  
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
Scope of Duties  
  
AUC staff and faculty are expected to be present and to assist to the best of their abilities with 
the restoration of normal business activity after an emergency, or a disaster disrupts AUC 
business activity. Such an emergency or disaster could stem from a cybersecurity incident, 
violation, or problem. After faculty's and staff's family and personal assets are determined to 
be safe, employees are expected to put in overtime, work under stressful conditions, and 
otherwise within reason to do whatever it takes to maintain AUC as a going concern.   
 
Users must not attempt to deal with cybersecurity incidents, violations, or problems without 
expert technical assistance. Technical responses to cybersecurity incidents, violations, and 
problems must be handled exclusively by AUC Information Security Office staff, AUC 
Advanced Information Security Operation Center Team (AISOC), and/or others who have 
been authorized by AUC Chief Information Security and Risk Officer.   
  
Advanced Information Security Operation Center Team (AISOC) is a group of skilled 
information technology specialists who have been designated as the ones to take action in 
response to reports of cybersecurity incidents. AISOC is responsible for preparing, 
maintaining, and periodically testing response procedures to a variety of cybersecurity 
incidents that can occur at AUC.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
  
Cyber Security Incident Response Policy • Page 4 of 5  
  
Reporting Incidents to Appropriate Internal Parties  
  
All AUC community have a duty to report cybersecurity incidents, violations, and problems 
to the IT Help Desk on a timely basis so that prompt remedial action may be taken. It is not 
the job of non-technical workers to assess the severity the urgency of these incidents, 
violations, and problems. The Designated Incident Coordinator, who is then on-duty, the 
person identified by the Chief Information Security  and Risk Officer to immediately respond 
to all such reports, will make this assessment.   
  
In the course of doing their work, many community users come across information security 
alerts, warnings, descriptions of suspected vulnerabilities, and the like. All of these should be 
forwarded to the IT Help Desk, and they will, in turn, be sent to the Designated Incident 
Coordinator. Users are prohibited from utilizing AUC information systems to forward such 
information to other users, whether the other users are internal or external to AUC.  
  
In general, all unusual and/or suspicious information-security-related events must be promptly 
reported. These events include unusual and troublesome requests for AUC internal 
information coming from an external party, previously unseen dysfunctional information 
system behavior, suspected cyber virus infestations, erroneous information systems results, 
and information system down conditions. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive AUC 
information, or sensitive information belonging to a third party that has been entrusted to 
AUC, must also be reported via the IT Help Desk.   
  
  
Reporting Incidents to Third Parties  
  
Unless previously approved by the Information Security Office, AUC community members 
must not report cybersecurity incidents, problems, and/or violations to any outside parties. 
These parties include news reporters, researchers compiling statistics on cybercrime, 
independent organizations compiling technical reports about incidents, and/or professional 
society members.  
  
Likewise, AUC community members who discover a weakness or vulnerability in the 
information security measures used by AUC must not discuss these matters with anyone other 
than the Designated Incident Coordinator, the Information Security Officer, the Internal Audit 
Manager, or trained investigators designated by one of these two managers. Open discussion 
of these weaknesses or vulnerabilities may lead to their exploitation by unauthorized parties.  
In the case of incidents involving sensitive information, such incidents shall be escalated to 
Chief Information Security and Risk Officer.  
  
Privacy and Protection of Workers Reporting Incidents  
  
Any attempt to interfere with, prevent, obstruct, or dissuade AUC community in their efforts 
to report a suspected cybersecurity incident, problem, or violation is strictly prohibited and 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
  
Cyber Security Incident Response Policy • Page 5 of 5  
cause for disciplinary action. Any form of retaliation against an individual reporting 
cybersecurity incidents, problems, or violations is also prohibited and causes disciplinary 
action.  
  
AUC will protect its community members who, in good faith, report, through the 
communications channels mentioned in this policy, what they believe to be incidents, 
violations, or problems. This means that these workers will not be terminated, threatened, or 
discriminated against because they report what they perceive to be a vulnerability, 
wrongdoing, or dangerous situation. If a reasonable period of time has elapsed since their first 
report, and these workers believe that no action is being taken about an ongoing serious 
condition, then they must report the problem to their immediate supervisor or the Internal 
Audit Manager. Before they make this second report, workers must give the responsible 
department a reasonable period of time to remedy the situation.  
  
AUC community members who report a cybersecurity incident, violation, or problem within 
AUC may, at their sole discretion, have their identity held in strict confidence. This means 
that the whistleblower's identity will be shielded in all subsequent uses of the information, 
including investigations and resolutions of the matter. An exception to this shielding must be 
made in those cases where a government agency, such as a court of law, requires the disclosure 
of the whistleblower's identity.  
  
  
  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date: January 16th, 2018   
Last Amended Date: January 16th, 2018  
Last Review Date: October, 2022 
Next Review Date: October 2025  

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Data Classification Policy • Page 1 of 4  
October 2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title:  Data Classification Policy - October 2022  
  
Approval date: August 2018  
  
Purpose of document: The document governs the data classification for AUC data.  
  
Office/department responsible: Office of Information Security. 
  
Approved by: Wessam Maher, Principal Campus Information Security Officer  
  
Document classification level: PUBLIC  
  
Document accessible: [ [https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]]  
  
Related documents/see also:  AUC Data Governance Policy, Information Security Policy,  
Electronic Mail Email Policy, Acceptable Use Policy, Peer to Peer Sharing Policy   
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
Data Classification Policy  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
AUC data assets must be classified, labeled, and protected appropriately.   
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
This policy will facilitate the following: -  
  
• 
Data will be shared responsibly with partners  
• 
Data will be held securely  
• 
Confidentiality will be assured  
• 
Regulatory and legislative requirements will be met  
• 
Business continuity plans will be prioritized according to the data classification category  
• 
All breaches of confidentiality will be weighted according to affected data classification 
severity.  
  
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Data Classification Policy • Page 2 of 4  
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Wessam Maher, Principal Campus Information Security Officer  
  
  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
AUC Staff and Faculty  
  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk 
Officer 
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security. 
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an e-mail to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
1. All data entered into, stored within, reported from, or transported physically or digitally 
via the AUC network, systems, hosted/outsourced systems, or departments is the 
property of AUC unless there is a legal agreement/applicable law that documents a 
different relation.    
2. All AUC data, despite its format, must be identified and counted in an inventory among 
each unit/department and ultimately through the data trustees.  
3. All AUC data must be classified into one of the following categories:  
a. AUC CONFIDENTIAL – pertains to all data of the highest sensitivity due to its’ 
time-sensitive, possibly financial, or fraud potential.  Such data includes all types 
of identifiable information, social security numbers, account numbers, payroll, 
personal information, passwords, code, client relations/engagements, and 
contracts under negotiation.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Data Classification Policy • Page 3 of 4  
b. AUC SENSITIVE – pertains to all data having compromising or competitive 
elements or implications intended strictly for use within AUC.  Such information 
includes basic financial information, security and audit information, and 
associate information.  
c. AUC INTERNAL – pertains to all information created by an individual user of 
the system and is not meant to be generally shared with others.  The unauthorized 
disclosure of this information reasonably could be expected to cause low 
substantive damage to AUC reputation, financials, or client relations.  Such 
information and communication informational is intended by the creator for a 
specific audience only.  
d. AUC PUBLIC – pertains to all data that does not require specific accountability 
and/or audit trails for use.  The unauthorized disclosure of this data would not 
cause any adverse impact on AUC’s reputation, financials, or client 
engagements.  Such information includes non-strategic information, publicly 
available information, or non-specific application information.  
4. The classification of data is independent of the technology or platform on which it is 
processed.  
5. The access rights of data given to users and stewards should be consistent across all 
areas.  Particular attention should be paid to data that can be downloaded or exported.  
6. Data access rights, classification, and acceptable security/protection mechanisms are 
governed by data domain trustees and ultimately by data trustees. Information Security's 
role is to assess and recommend the proper controls.  
7. Information Technology tools administrators are data custodians to the assigned 
container application/service unless the data is related to their approved business scope.  
8. All data must be classified from the start of the information/data collection and 
development.  
9. Data classified higher than Public must be:  
a. Labeled appropriately   
b. Its final format out of systems should carry the appropriate labeling.  
c. Reviewed by the appropriate manager, trustee, and Information Security for 
implementing the appropriate security measures to control access to this data.  
10. The marking should reflect the sensitivity of the material in any output format.  Output 
includes printed reports, magnetic media, electronic messages, and file transfers.  
11. Data often ceases to be sensitive after a period of time, for example, when the data has 
been made public. Data classification should be updated as needed.  
12. Data classification awareness and training to staff, faculty, students, and all applicable 
entities must be performed regularly through Data trustees, Data domain trustees and  
Information Security.  
13. According to the Data classification, a proper retention and disposal mechanism/process 
must be developed and applied. This mechanism/process must be approved by the 
Information Security office and ultimately by the Data trustees.  
  
Exceptions  
Exceptions should be a minimum; if they exist, they should be approved by Data trustees 
and Information Security Office.  
  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Data Classification Policy • Page 4 of 4  
Enforcement  
Any user found to have violated this policy (or part thereof) may be subject to disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination of employment or dismissal from the University  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
AUC Data Governance Policy   
Information Security Policy  
Electronic Mail Email Policy  
Acceptable Use Policy  
  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
December 2015  
Last Amended Date:  August 2018  
Last Review Date:  
October 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October 2025  

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
___________________________________________________________________________ 
Document title: AUC Data Governance Policy 
 
Approval date: March 2020 
 
Purpose of document:  
 
The Data Governance Policy manages the quality, consistency, usability, security, 
accessibility, and availability of administrative data. It covers staff, policies, processes, best 
practices, awareness and technologies required to manage the university’s administrative 
data. The main objectives of Data Governance include defining data owners, roles, 
responsibilities and accountabilities, enforcing conformance to data policies, standards, and 
procedures and resolving data related issues. 
 
Office/department responsible: Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness 
(SMIE) 
Approved by: Ayman Abdel Latif, Vice President for Digital Transformation 
 
Document classification level: PUBLIC 
 
Document accessible: [ www.aucegpyt.edu/xxx/xxx ] 
 
Document includes:  
Data Governance Policy  
Appendix A: Data Management Roles and Responsibilities 
Appendix B: List of Sample Data Sources  
Appendix C: Training and Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
Data Governance 
 
Policy Statement 
 
Data Governance manages the quality, consistency, usability, security, accessibility, and availability 
of administrative data. This governance covers staff, policies, processes, best practices, awareness and 
technologies required to manage the university’s administrative data as an institutional asset, and 
focuses on university administrative data maintained by administrative and academic offices. 
. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
The main objectives of the University Data Governance Policy include: 
 
1. To define data owners, roles, responsibilities and accountabilities. 
2. To define, approve, and communicate data strategies, policies, standards, procedures, and metrics. 
3. To track and enforce conformance to data policies, standards, and procedures. 
4. To manage and resolve data related issues. 
5. To understand and promote the value of data assets. 
6. To reduce university risk by maintaining quality data. 
 
Who Approved This Policy 
Ayman Abdel Latif, Vice President for Digital Transformation, March 2017. 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
Entire AUC community. 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
Please list the location on the university’s website where this policy is located.  
 
Contacts 
Responsible University Office:  Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure about Data Governance Policy, you 
may:  
1. Call Rasha Radwan at 26152231, or  
2. Send an e-mail to rasha_r@aucegypt.edu 
 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: 
October 31, 2016 
Last Amended Date: May 31, 2019  
Next Review Date: 
March 31, 2021
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
 
 
The American University in Cairo 
Data Governance 
 
INTRODUCTION 
The American University in Cairo administrative data is a mission critical institutional asset that must 
be adequately used in support of evidence-based decision-making.  The Office of Strategy Management 
and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) is the focal point for administering, supporting, and promoting 
this activity. Data Governance manages the quality, consistency, usability, security, accessibility, and 
availability of administrative data. This governance covers staff, policies, processes, best practices, 
awareness and technologies required to manage the university’s administrative data as an institutional 
asset, and focuses on university administrative data maintained by administrative and academic offices.  
 
OBJECTIVES 
The main objectives of the University Data Governance Policy include: 
 
7. To define data owners, roles, responsibilities and accountabilities. 
8. To define, approve, and communicate data strategies, policies, standards, procedures, and 
metrics. 
9. To track and enforce conformance to data policies, standards, and procedures. 
10. To manage and resolve data related issues. 
11. To understand and promote the value of data assets. 
12. To reduce university risk by maintaining quality data. 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
 
Data Governance Policy 
POLICY 
This policy is concerned with University Administrative Data. Such data is owned by The American 
University in Cairo.  All members of the University community are responsible for appropriately and 
objectively using, as well as safeguarding such data.  This policy establishes uniform data management 
standards for Administrative Data, and identifies the shared responsibilities for assuring the following:  
 
1. The integrity of Administrative Data. 
2. That Administrative Data efficiently and effectively serve the needs of the University. 
3. The presence of, and conformance to a uniform set of definitions for commonly used data 
across the university, wherever applicable. 
4. Confidentiality and privacy of Administrative Data. 
5. Meeting compliance and regulatory requirements. 
6. The reporting of actual or suspected cases of breach of information security 
(confidentiality, integrity, or availability), to the office of Information Security for 
due handling.  
 
This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. It is owned by the office of Strategy Management 
and Institutional Effectiveness. 
SCOPE OF THE POLICY 
This policy applies to: 
 
1. All employees, supervisors and managers whose job responsibilities include updating, 
safeguarding, extracting, or usage of Administrative Data. 
2. The University as a whole including but not limited to, all of its campuses, schools, units, 
centers and administrative departments. 
3. All Administrative Data of all kind regardless of means or location of storage. This policy 
applies to Source Data Systems and Administrative Data extracted from those Source Data 
Systems, as well as data stored in any data repository. 
 
Individuals affected by this policy include all data management roles of institutional data, information 
and knowledge including, but not limited to, the list available in Appendix B.   
 
A. GUIDING PRINCIPLES 
1. The Office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) is responsible for 
promoting and enforcing this policy, in collaboration with other offices on an as-needed basis.  
The office of Information Security of the University is responsible for proactively coordinating 
with SMIE with regards to all aspects of Information Security pertaining to this governance 
document. 
2. In order for the University to effectively manage and safeguard its Administrative Data, 
procedures must be in place to guide its appropriate access, to ensure its security, and to provide 
a means to address procedural exceptions.  It is necessary for all employees who deal with 
Administrative Data to be trained and informed about data security.  
3. Role definitions of individuals with data responsibilities are necessary to support data integrity 
and security.  
4. Sharing Administrative Data within the University should be facilitated where appropriate, 
subject to appropriate security restrictions as established by each Data Domain Trustee and 
ratified by the Data Trustees. 
5. Implementation of this policy will reinforce a uniform set of definitions for commonly used 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
 
data across the university when possible (e.g., “enrolled student” should have the same 
meaning throughout the University). 
6. Integration of Administrative Data across the University should be encouraged to foster 
data accuracy and uniformity. This should result in reduced duplication of data and greater 
data accuracy. 
7. Administrative Data should be safeguarded to maintain the confidentiality and privacy of 
personally identified information. 
 
B. DATA ADMINISTRATION 
1. University Ownership of Administrative Data  
All Administrative Data is owned by The American University in Cairo.  As such, all members of 
the University have the obligation to appropriately use and safeguard the asset, in all formats and 
in all locations. 
 
2. Stewardship  
Roles and responsibilities for safeguarding and classifying the Administrative Data asset are 
defined below in section C, Data Management Roles and Responsibilities. 
 
3. Information Classification  
Administrative Data is categorized and retained as per the University related policy. 
 
4. Access, Security and Confidentiality  
a) Access to institutional data is granted internally based on an institutional need-to-know-basis to 
support institutional decision-making.  Employees are granted access to institutional data needed 
to perform their duties by virtue of their position at the University.  Authorization for access to 
data is not transferable. Access to data is granted only after a Confidentiality Agreement is signed 
by the person obtaining access. 
b) Proper, business friendly and accepted secure access tools and mediums must be in place and 
deployed regardless of the data representation form, these tools and mediums need to be 
approved by both the Data Steward and the office of Information Security.  
c) Data Disposal mechanisms need to be executed securely as well as Data mediums disposal 
(Example: Hard Disks, Servers…etc.) as per the agreement of the relevant Data Steward, Data 
Custodian and the office of Information Security. 
d) Data Domain Trustees, Internal Auditor, Legal Affairs, the office of Information Security and 
the office of SMIE reserve the right to audit and review activities of all users and administrators 
of any Data Source system. 
e) In case of any access violation, intentional record tampering, breach of confidentiality, or similar 
suspicious activities whether actual or suspected, such incidents must be reported to the office of 
Information Security for due handling. 
f) Data Trustees are responsible for granting access to Institutional Data, defining and 
implementing the standard procedures for requesting and approving access to Institutional Data 
irrespective of the type of the data.  All procedures should include adequate tracking for requests 
and approvals such that authorized access to Institutional Data is auditable. 
g) For information that is not accessible to the requesting user as per the University Information 
Classification Policy, granting access is contingent on the signature of a standardized 
Confidentiality Agreement for all users at all levels of the institution.  Data custodians are 
responsible for enforcing this process.  The office of Strategy Management and Institutional 
Effectiveness (SMIE) will make available a Confidentiality Agreement for such purposes (in 
collaboration with relevant offices of the University). 
h) The office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) has the right to 
inquire and request access to all sorts and forms of institutional data. SMIE has the right to all 
operations related to institutional data, data standards, data definitions and governance; inquire, 
extract, collect, analyze, disseminate, report, quality check and disclose data.  In case the access 
requires signing a Confidentiality Agreement, the same requirements applicable to data Stewards 
should be extended to SMIE staff and systems.  Upon formally requesting inquiry about, or 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
 
access to data, the office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) must 
obtain access to their requested data, or response to their inquiry within two business days from 
the initiation of the formal request. In the case where SMIE is unable to have their request 
fulfilled within reasonable time beyond the two business days, SMIE has the right to arbitrate 
the case with the VP/Chief Digital Officer (or equivalent role), who will have final decision as 
relates to the request being made, or arbitration will be done including the corresponding area 
head along with the responsible senior administrator at the University cabinet level.  
i) Institutional data must be stored in such a way as to ensure that the data is secure, and covered 
by a Disaster Recovery Plan developed and/or approved by the office of Information Security 
and other concerned units.  Data custodians must ensure that passwords and other security 
mechanisms are used, and that access is limited to authorized users. 
j) Users are responsible for protecting the data they have access to against making misinformed or 
incorrect interpretations of data or misrepresentations of information.  Data users must not 
knowingly falsify, delete or change data without providing sufficient justification and securing 
necessary approvals. 
k) Access to institutional data is granted externally when release of such data would not violate the 
university's policies.  External access should be governed by contractual agreement and approved 
by the University Legal Advisor and the VP/Chief Digital Officer (or equivalent role). External 
users should sign a Confidentiality Agreement.  
l) The University office of Information Security is responsible for working closely with the various 
stakeholders to promote security expectations listed herein this document.   
In order that the proper controls are applied, it is the responsibility of each person accessing 
Administrative Data to: (a) know the classification of the system being used, (b) know the type of 
Administrative Data being used, (c) follow the appropriate security measures, and (d) consult the 
related policies for further information.  It is their right to also be duly trained with respect to aspects 
listed herein. 
 
5. Training   
Before an individual is permitted access to Administrative Data in any form, training on the use 
and attributes of the data, functional area data policies, and University policies regarding data is 
required. For users with current access, and who have not received prior training, SMIE will 
communicate the need, and scope of training to relevant offices of the University. The Data Domain 
Trustees shall establish the appropriate levels of training for all such individuals within their units. 
The training will be recurrent based on needs and requirements. SMIE will coordinate regular data 
governance awareness campaigns to the University community. 
 
6. Integrity, Validation, and Correction  
Administrative Data must be safeguarded and managed in all formats and media (e.g., print and 
digital), at all points of access, and across all University systems through coordinated efforts and 
shared responsibilities.  Each Data Trustee, in conjunction with the appropriate Data Domain 
Trustee, shall be responsible for developing a plan for their functional area to assess the risk of 
erroneous or inconsistent data and indicate how such Administrative Data, if found, will be 
corrected.  The office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) will be 
responsible for ensuring that each functional area develops a plan according to expectation, and 
uses that plan to develop and implement processes for identifying and correcting erroneous or 
inconsistent data. Disputes between SMIE and any other University office with respect to planning 
will be reported to the VP/Chief Digital Officer (or equivalent role) for arbitration, and for the 
appropriate decision to be taken. 
 
7. Extraction, Manipulation, and Reporting  
Extraction, manipulation, and reporting of Administrative Data must be done only for University 
business purposes, or subject to terms of use as otherwise approved by the Data Trustee Committee. 
Personal use of Administrative Data, in any format and at any location, is prohibited except with 
the prior written approval of SMIE.  The office of Strategy Management and Institutional 
Effectiveness (SMIE) is the sole entity responsible for official reporting of institutional data, 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
 
information, knowledge or analytics needed for institutional decision making.  Where data extracted 
or reported cannot be reconciled with the official institutional data, it cannot be considered official 
institutional data or presented as such.  All units reserve the right to extract and analyze operational 
information to serve their business needs.  Any representation of the data or information in the form 
of reports, web pages, paper documents, other forms will include a disclaimer that indicates that the 
data or information are not official institutional data. 
 
C. DATA MANAGEMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
Data management roles with responsibilities are outlined below.  Refer to Appendix A for specific 
details. 
  
1. Data Trustee  
Data Trustees are senior University officials (typically at the level of Vice President, Provost or 
higher) who have planning and policy-making responsibilities for Administrative Data and for the 
establishment of operational processes to collect and record data in accordance with University 
business rules.  The Data Trustees, as a group, are responsible for overseeing the establishment of 
Administrative Data management policies and procedures, and for the assignment of data 
management accountability. 
 
 
Oversee the establishment of data management policies and processes. 
 
Assign Data Stewards and Data Domain Trustees. 
 
Serve as an escalation point for problem/policy resolution. 
 
Approve the Business Continuity and Disaster recovery deliverables (Example: maximum 
data loss in case of disasters and maximum tolerable time without data availability…etc.). 
 
Approve record retention and archiving guidelines in accordance with the University 
business needs and legal regulations. 
 
Authorize Data change hold in case of legal/audit related data freeze requests. 
 
2. Data Domain Trustee  
Data Domain Trustees are senior managers in operational areas responsible for maintaining the 
content of Transactional Systems.  The Data Domain Trustees implement policy as established by 
Data Trustees, assign Data Stewards, and serve as the first escalation point for problem/policy 
resolution from the Data Stewards. 
 
3. Data Steward  
Data Stewards are typically operational managers in a functional area with day-to-day 
responsibilities for managing business processes and establishing the business rules for the 
Transactional Systems.  Data Stewards are appointed by the respective Data Domain Trustees. 
 
 
Certify data deposited in the warehouse. 
 
Certify standard reports and dashboards. 
 
Oversee the resolution of data errors. 
 
Participate in establishing common definitions. 
 
Assist in collecting and recording metadata. 
 
Establish and manage policy for record retention and archiving. 
 
Suggest and implement proper security controls. 
 
4. Data User  
Data Users are individuals who access Administrative Data to perform their assigned duties.  Data 
Users are responsible for safeguarding their access privileges, for the use of the Administrative 
Data in conformity with all applicable University policies, and for securing such data. 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
 
5. Data Custodian  
The Data Custodians are information technology staff assigned to each ERP system which 
maintains Administrative Data.  Data Custodians oversee the safe transport and storage of data, 
establish and maintain the source data systems, and perform activities required to keep the data 
intact and available to users. 
 
In addition, Data Custodians are responsible for working with Data Stewards and the office of 
Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) to develop automated processes 
which identify erroneous, inconsistent, or missing data and resolve data issues.  Their 
responsibilities include: 
 
Establishing and maintaining the underlying source data systems. 
 
Ensuring the accurate transfer of data into the University Data Warehouse using 
automated validation and error management processes. 
 
Performing activities required to keep the data intact and available to users. 
 
Collaborating with the Decision Support Group and the Data Stewards to implement 
data transformations, resolve data issues, and manage system changes. 
 
Developing the data governance infrastructure strategy, including policies, roles, 
responsibilities and processes. 
 
Works with Information Security to establish proper security controls. 
 
 
6. Office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) 
The office of Strategy Management and Institutional Effectiveness (SMIE) is responsible for 
data, information or knowledge used in official reporting.  This includes, but is not limited 
to, generate all official institutional reporting of data, information, knowledge and analytics, 
to internal and external entities on behalf of the University, working with the appropriate 
Data Stewards to develop standard definitions of commonly used terms; define how official 
University metrics are calculated; work to discover data discrepancies, inconsistencies and 
gaps and will promptly report such to the appropriate Data Steward for resolution.   
 
 
7. IT Planning and Governance Committee  
The IT Planning and Governance Committee is the focal point for discussion and decision 
support for all aspects of information and information technology governance within the 
business ecosystem of the university. The Committee oversees that information technology 
resources are planned, managed and executed effectively with all stakeholders’ interests taken 
into account to support AUC in fulfilling its strategic direction The Committee ensures that 
IT projects and initiatives abide by Information Security and Data Governance standards and 
regulations 
 
 
8. Office of Information Security 
The office of Information Security is responsible for all technical access and security logs, 
audit trails, authentication logs, traffic flows evidence, data access evidence, etc. for all AUC 
digital services and data sources.  The office is also responsible for related security based 
analysis, evidence collection, correlation and reporting. The office of Information Security 
works with Data Stewards and Data Custodians to ensure that proper security controls, change 
audit logs, secure access procedures are in place.  This office will proactively work with 
relevant entities to promote and enforce its reasonable expectations regarding Information 
Security. 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
 
Appendix A: Data Management Roles and Responsibilities 
 
Data Type 
Data Trustee 
Data Domain Trustee 
Data Steward 
Reporting  
Students Recruitment Data  
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Admissions, Financial Affairs & Scholarships & CEO 
SMIE 
Students Admission Data 
(Undergraduate) 
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Admissions, Financial Affairs & Scholarships & CEO 
SMIE 
Students Registration Data 
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Strategic Enrollment 
Management  
University Registrar 
SMIE 
International Students 
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Strategic Enrollment 
Management  
Director of International 
Programs Office (IPO) 
SMIE 
Students Admission Data 
(Graduate) 
The Provost 
Dean of Graduate Studies 
Director of Graduate Admissions 
SMIE 
Students Graduate Fellowships The Provost 
Dean of Graduate Studies 
  
SMIE 
Students Financial Assistance 
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Admissions, Financial Affairs & Scholarships & CEO 
SMIE 
Students Athletics Data 
VP for Student Life  
Director for Strategy Execution & 
Operational Excellence 
Senior Director of Athletics   
SMIE 
Students Activities Data 
VP for Student Life  
Director for Strategy Execution & 
Operational Excellence 
Senior Director, Office of Student 
Life 
SMIE 
International Students 
VP for Student Life  
Director for Strategy Execution & 
Operational Excellence 
Senior Director Office of Student 
Life 
SMIE 
Student Housing 
VP for Student Life  
Director for Strategy Execution & 
Operational Excellence 
Senior Director, Residential Life  
SMIE 
Students Financial Affairs Data VP for Finance and CFO  
University Financial Controller  
Director Student Accounting  
SMIE 
Student Library Records 
The Provost 
Dean of Libraries and Learning 
Technologies   
Director of Library Automation 
Systems 
SMIE 
School of Continued Education 
Data 
The Provost 
Dean of School of Continuing Education 
Executive Director, Strategic 
Management 
SMIE 
Course Catalog, Schedule, 
Faculty Assignment 
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Strategic Enrollment 
Management  
University Registrar 
SMIE 
Full Time Faculty Data  
The Provost 
The Provost 
Assistant Provost for Faculty 
Affairs 
SMIE 
Faculty Housing 
VP for Management and 
Transformation  
AVP for Campus Services  
Sr. Dir, Faculty Housing & 
Transport. Services.  
SMIE 
Staff 
The President  
VP for University Affairs & COS 
Senior AVP for Human Resources SMIE 
Part Time Faculty   
The President  
VP for University Affairs & COS 
Senior AVP for Human Resources SMIE 
External Research Data  
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Sponsored Programs 
SMIE 
Internal Research Data 
The Provost 
Associate Provost for Research AP-RIC 
Director, Initiatives and Coopetition 
for Research and Entrepreneurship  
AP-RIC Office 
SMIE 
Finance (Budget) 
VP for Finance and CFO  
Chief Budget & Fin. Planning Officer  
SMIE 
Finance (Endowment, Financial 
Statements) 
VP for Finance and CFO  
University Financial Controller  
Director, Financial Analysis & 
Reporting  
SMIE 
Employability 
VP for Advancement & Americas  AVP for Advancement & Employability  Assistant Director, Operation & 
Assessment 
SMIE 
Alumni 
VP for Advancement & Americas  Executive Director, Alumni Eng. & AUC  
Fund  
SMIE 
Communications_ 
VP for Marketing, 
Communications & Public Affairs 
Executive Director for Communications  
SMIE 
Energy/Water Consumption 
VP for Management and  
Operations 
AVP for Campus Services  
Sustainability Officer  
 
SMIE 
 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
 
 
Appendix B: List of Sample Data Sources  
Student Information System 
Banner Student 
Administrative System 
SAP 
Resource Allocation System 
AdAstra 
Career Services System 
Career Web 
Research Systems 
SciVal 
Faculty Systems 
eRepertoire 
Alumni and Fund Raising Systems 
Sales Force 
Process and Work Flow Systems 
Axiom and Perceptive 
Survey Systems and/or any survey related data/sources 
 
Planning, Assessment and Accreditation Systems 
Compliance Assist 
Digital Archive and Research Repository 
AUC DAR 
Rare Books and Special Collections Digital Library 
OCLC CONTENTdm 
System 
Archival Description System 
ArchiveSpace 
Web Archiving System 
Archivelt 
Library Systems 
Sierra 
All in house developed systems 
Ex: Planning Matrix 
All other systems and data sources 
 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
March 2020 
 
 
Appendix C: Training and Development 
Student Information System 
Banner Student 
Office of Strategic Academic Services 
Administrative System 
SAP 
HR Module: Office of Human Resources 
 
Budget Module: Office of Budget and 
Financial Planning 
 
Supply Chain Module: Office of Supply 
Chain Management 
 
Financial Module: Office of the 
Controller 
Resource Allocation System 
AdAstra 
Office of University Information 
Systems 
Career Services System 
Career Web 
Office of Career Services 
Research Systems 
SciVal 
  
Faculty Systems 
eRepertoire 
  
Alumni 
and 
Fund 
Raising 
Systems 
Sales Force 
Alumni Office 
Process and Work Flow Systems 
Axiom 
and 
Perceptive 
Office of University Information 
Systems 
Survey Systems and/or any 
survey related data/sources 
  
Office of Strategy Management and 
Institutional Effectiveness 
Planning, Assessment and 
Accreditation Systems 
Compliance Assist 
Office of Strategy Management and 
Institutional Effectiveness 
Archiving Systems 
AUC DAR, OCLC 
CONTENTdm, 
ArchiveSpace, 
ArchiveIT 
Rare Books and Special Collections 
Library 
Library Automation System  
Sierra 
Library Automation Systems 
All in house developed systems 
Ex: Planning Matrix 
Office of University Academic 
Computing 
All other systems and data 
sources 
  
  
 
 
 
 

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Digital Asset Disposal Policy • Page 1 of 3  
October 2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title:  Digital Asset Disposal Policy – October 2022  
  
Approval date: June 2018  
  
Purpose of document: The document explains the requirements for the disposal of AUC 
digital assets in order to secure the confidentiality of AUC data that could have been 
stored on them.   
  
Office/department responsible: Office of Information Security  
  
Approved by: Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
  
Document classification level: PUBLIC  
  
Document accessible: [https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]  
  
Related documents/see also:  AUC Data Governance Policy, Information Security Policy,  
Electronic Mail Email Policy, Acceptable Use Policy, Peer to Peer Sharing Policy   
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
Digital Asset Disposal Policy  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
AUC digital assets must be cleared adequately from any AUC data before any disposal action   
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
The purpose of this policy is to enable AUC to: Ensure the community is fully aware of the 
required security needed to protect its data while disposing of any digital asset by doing the 
proper cleaning and wiping for AUC data.  
  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
Wessam Maher, Principal Campus Information Security Officer  
  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Digital Asset Disposal Policy • Page 2 of 3  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
Entire AUC community  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk 
Officer. 
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security. 
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an e-mail to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
Definitions  
 
  
Term (alphabetical order)  
Definition as it relates to this policy  
Digital assets  
AUC supplied/provisioned electronic devices like computers, 
laptops, tablets, phones,….etc.   
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
1. Users who use AUC digital assets are primarily responsible for ensuring that any AUC 
data are kept out of any device that will be replaced, disposed or sold  
2. IT is responsible for wiping and securely cleaning all devices/digital assets before it is 
transferred to the AUC warehouse  
3. Wiping/Secure cleaning action applies to all kinds of digital assets. Exceptions are 
handled by the information security office  
4. Secure cleaning instructions are set by the Information Security Office and may differ 
according to the asset type  
5. Warehouse and inventory functions should ensure that IT certifies any asset that goes in 
or out of the warehouse, whether for internal use or for being disposed of or sold, is 
cleaned securely.  
6. IT and the warehouse should keep an inventory of cleaned devices with their proper 
identification. Example: - FA number, Serial number, …etc.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Digital Asset Disposal Policy • Page 3 of 3  
7. According to stored data criticality and information security feedback, some assets need 
to be disposed of physically or have their hard disks destroyed physically.  
  
Exceptions  
Exceptions should be a minimum; if they exist, they should be approved by the Information 
Security Office.  
  
Enforcement  
Any user found to have violated this policy (or part thereof) may be subject to disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination of employment or dismissal from the University  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
AUC Data Governance Policy   
Information Security Policy  
Electronic Mail Email Policy  
Acceptable Use Policy  
Peer to Peer Sharing Policy  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
December 2017  
Last Amended Date:  June 2018  
Last Review Date:  
October 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October 2025  

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Digital Computing Asset Management Policy • Page 1 of 6  
October 2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: Digital Computing Asset Management – October 2022  
  
Approval date: February 2018  
  
Purpose of document: This document is to keep the AUC community aware of the 
existence of security requirements to protect the digital computing assets of the 
university.  
  
Office/department responsible: Office of Information Security 
  
Approved by: Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
  
Document classification level: PUBLIC  
  
Document accessible: [ [https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]]  
  
Related documents/see also: [ AUC Data Governance Policy, Information Security Policy,  
Electronic Mail Email Policy, Acceptable Use Policy, Peer to Peer Sharing Policy]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
Digital Computing Asset Management  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
AUC digital computing assets must be protected by all means and listed by a rigid inventory. 
No violations of Use are accepted. AUC has the right to protect its assets and ensure its 
compliance.  
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
  The purpose of this digital computing asset security policy is to enable AUC to ensure the 
community is fully aware of the requisite security needed to protect a digital computing asset, 
be it in a secure office environment or any other location, and describe the controls necessary 
to minimize information security risks affecting AUC digital computing assets.     
  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Digital Computing Asset Management Policy • Page 2 of 6  
Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
Wessam Maher, Principal Campus Information Security Officer  
  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
Entire AUC community  
  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk 
Officer. 
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security. 
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an email to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
Definitions  
 
  
Term (alphabetical order)  
Definition as it relates to this policy  
Digital computing assets  
AUC supplied/provisioned electronic devices like computers, 
laptops, tablets, phones,….etc.   
Malware  
A malicious or unwanted computer program that can steal data 
and or harm the data/device  
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
1. Users who use an AUC digital computing asset are primarily responsible for its 
safekeeping and for the security of any information it contains. Users must protect AUC 
digital computing assets to minimize the possibility of loss or theft, unauthorized use, or 
tampering.  
2. Users must follow all IT and Information Security rules, guidelines, and limitations 
concerning the protection of AUC digital computing assets and its content.  
3. IT and Information Security have the right to monitor the Use of digital computing assets 
for purposes of security, compliance, and administration purposes.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Digital Computing Asset Management Policy • Page 3 of 6  
4. IT and Information Security have the right to limit and control the scope of Use of digital 
computing assets to serve AUC objectives efficiently and effectively.  
5. IT and Information Security have the right to install and enforce software packages and 
features changes for enabling/disabling features, limiting administrator privileges, 
measuring performance, and applying security controls. Users don’t have the right to 
disable, control, or limit these actions. A documented approval and risk acceptance must 
be signed for any exception.  
6. IT and Information Security must approve and validate all purchasing requests for digital 
computing assets to ensure their adequacy from an operational and security perspective.  
7. All data output, analysis outcome, an application developed, research results, …etc. that 
is a result and realized through the Use of AUC digital computing assets are considered 
owned by AUC unless a formal exception is granted by AUC senior management.  
8. AUC digital computing assets should only be used for AUC approved business needs 
only  
9. Cryptocurrency mining using AUC digital computing assets is forbidden.  
10. Digital computing assets should be compliant with copyright laws, telecommunication 
laws, and all applicable laws  
11. Whenever required by law, AUC will provide relevant information and access to digital 
computing assets to law enforcement entities  
12. AUC has the right to access, collect, and confiscate any digital computing asset for 
investigation, digital forensic, or compliance needs. Access rules and procedures are 
handled by Information Security, Legal, and Physical Security offices.  
13. AUC has the right to analyze the outgoing and incoming traffic to any digital computing 
asset connected to its network for performance management, problem-solving, 
information security, and compliance needs  
  
Inventory  
A digital computing asset inventory must be in a place that includes all relevant digital data 
like MAC address, operating system type and version, device vendor, model name and 
number, list of software installed name and version….etc. This inventory is essential for 
operational support, upgrade plans, as well as information security controls enforcement, and 
risk assessment.   
Inventory of newly-added assets and retiring assets should be performed adequately. Live 
inventory/monitoring tools and agents can be used to identify the device status when 
applicable.  
  
Ownership  
Ownership of digital computing assets must be documented and adequately updated at all 
times. Digital computing assets must be delegated to a custodian/person at all times.  
  
Assets Return  
Digital computing assets should be returned to AUC as the ultimate owner whenever the asset 
is not in Use, outdated; the owner has ended his/her relationship with AUC.  
  
University Servers and Associated Applications  
1. Ownership of AUC servers and their associated applications must be clarified and 
documented at all times in a detailed inventory.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Digital Computing Asset Management Policy • Page 4 of 6  
2. An application admin and a system admin should be identified for every AUC server 
and digital service  
3. Application and system admins are data custodians; data owners have the ultimate 
hand in access granting and revoking.  
4. The application admin is responsible for operating and maintaining the application to 
meet the business objectives.   
5. System admin is the person responsible for operating and maintaining the operating 
system and any server backend services/packages that are essential for the application 
to run.  
6. New AUC servers/services/applications must have the following prerequisites before 
going live: -  
a. Documented high and low-level architecture  
b. Data flow chart  
c. Documented risk assessment and business impact analysis   
  
Acceptable Use of digital computing assets  
1. Ensure that you log out and clear your data and credentials when you use any public 
access computer, like lab/library PCs  
2. The physical security of AUC digital computing assets is your responsibility, so take 
all reasonable precautions. Be sensible and stay alert to risks.  
3. Keep AUC digital computing asset “"hat is in your custody”"in your possession and 
within sight whenever possible. Be careful in public places such as airports, railway 
stations, or restaurants.  
4. If you have to leave the digital computing asset temporarily unattended in the office, 
meeting room, or hotel room, even for a short while, use a digital computing asset 
security cable or similar device to attach it firmly to a desk or similar heavy furniture 
whenever applicable or put it in a safe if applicable.  
5. Lock the digital computing asset away out of sight when you are not using it, 
preferably in a strong cupboard, filing cabinet, or safe. This applies at home, in the 
office, or in a hotel. Never leave a digital computing asset visibly unattended in a 
vehicle.  
6. Carry and store the digital computing asset in a padded bag or strong briefcase to 
reduce the chance of accidental damage.  
7. Keep a note of the make, model, serial number, and AUC asset label of your digital 
computing asset, but do not keep this information with the digital computing asset. If 
it is lost or stolen, notify AUC Physical Security and the police and inform the IT 
help/service desk immediately.  
8. Outside office hours, digital computing assets that are left in the office must be 
properly closed and secured in a suitable locked cabinet within their place of work 
whenever applicable.  
9. You must use approved encryption software on all AUC digital computing assets 
whenever applicable, choose a long, strong encryption password/phrase and keep it 
secure. Contact the IT help/service desk for further information on digital computing 
asset encryption. If your digital computing asset is lost or stolen, encryption provides 
extremely strong protection against unauthorized access to the data.  
10. You are personally accountable for all network and systems access under your user 
ID, so keep your password absolutely secret. Never share it with anyone, not even 
members of your family, friends, or IT staff.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Digital Computing Asset Management Policy • Page 5 of 6  
11. University digital computing assets are provided for official Use by authorized 
persons. Do not loan your digital computing asset or allow it to be used by others, 
such as family and friends.  
12. DDon'tstore personal data on AUC assets; accidental access and storage can be 
acceptable.  
13. Avoid leaving your digital computing asset unattended and logged on. Always shut 
down, log off, or activate a password-protected screensaver before walking away 
from the machine.  
14. Malware is a major threat to AUC, and digital computing assets are particularly 
vulnerable if their antivirus/anti-malware software is not kept up to date. The 
antivirus software MUST be updated at least weekly.         
15. Email attachments are now the number one source of computer viruses. Avoid 
opening any email attachment unless you were expecting to receive it from that 
person.  
16. Always virus scan any files downloaded to your digital computing asset from any 
source (CD/DVD, USB hard disks and memory sticks, network files, email 
attachments, or files from the Internet). Virus scans normally happen automatically, 
but the IT help/service desk can tell you how to initiate manual scans if you wish to 
be certain.  
17. Report any security incidents (such as virus infections) promptly to the IT 
help/service desk to reduce the damage.  
18. Respond immediately to any virus warning message on your computer or if you 
suspect a virus (by unusual file activity) by contacting the IT help desk. Do not 
forward any files or upload data onto the network if you suspect your PC might be 
infected.  
19. Do not download, install, or use unauthorized software programs. Unauthorized 
software could introduce serious security vulnerabilities into AUC networks as well 
as affect the working condition of your digital computing asset.   
20. Software packages that permit the computer to be remote controlled (e.g., Team 
viewer, PC anywhere...etc.) and hacking tools (network sniffers and password 
crackers…etc) is explicitly forbidden on AUC equipment unless they have been 
explicitly preauthorized by information security office for legitimate business 
purposes.  
21. Be careful about software licenses. Most software, unless it is specifically identified 
as freeware or public domain software, may only be installed and/or used if the 
appropriate license fee has been paid.  
22. Shareware or trial packages must be deleted or licensed by the end of the permitted 
free trial period.  
23. You must ensure that you manage to run regular backups of data on your digital 
computing asset.       
24. You need to ensure that backups are encrypted and physically secured.  
25. AUC will not tolerate inappropriate materials such as pornographic, racist, 
defamatory, or harassing files, pictures, videos, or email messages that might cause 
offense or embarrassment. Never store, use, copy, or circulate such material on any 
digital computing asset and steer clear of dubious websites.   
26. If you receive inappropriate material by email or other means, report it to the IT help 
desk or delete it immediately  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Digital Computing Asset Management Policy • Page 6 of 6  
27. Portable digital computing assets normally have smaller keyboards, displays, and 
pointing devices that are less comfortable to use than desktop systems, increasing the 
chance of repetitive strain injury. Wherever possible, place the digital computing 
asset on a conventional desk or table and sit comfortably in an appropriate chair to 
use it.  
28. If you tend to use the digital computing asset in an office most of the time, you are 
advised to use a docking station with a full-sized keyboard, a normal mouse, and a 
display permanently mounted at the correct height.  
  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
AUC Data Governance Policy   
Information Security Policy  
Electronic Mail Email Policy  
Acceptable Use Policy Peer 
to Peer Sharing Policy  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
January 2016  
Last Amended Date:  February 2018  
Last Review Date:  
October 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October 2025 

The American University in Cairo 
November 2019 
 
                                                                                                                                  Page 1 of 8 
 
 
 Direct Purchase (DP) and Direct Purchase Order (DPO) Policies 
and procedures 
 
Policy Statement 
 
Direct Purchase (DP) and Direct Purchase Orders (DPO’s) enable individual departments and 
units to purchase goods and services directly with a value of $2,000 or less without prior 
approval or processing through the Procurement Services Department. This will provide 
faster procurement services to the departments and units for low-value goods and services 
and will utilize the Procurement Services Department for more value-added and strategic 
procurement functions. Goods and services procured through a DPO or DP are for AUC 
business use only not for personal use. 
 
 Direct Purchase (DP) for goods and services with a value of $500 or less per invoice. 
 Direct Purchase Orders (DPO) for goods and services with a value from $501 to $2000 
per order. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
  
There are some types of acquisitions for which the procedures of the procurement office are 
neither required nor appropriate. The purpose of this policy is to streamline the procurement 
process for such types of acquisitions and to ensure that AUC obtains the best value for its 
expenditures while ensuring that all procurement processes abide by the highest level of 
institutional and personal integrity.    
 
Who Approved This Policy 
 
Dr. Gordon Handke, VP for Finance & Chief Financial Officer 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
All AUC Schools, Departments, Administrative offices, Programs, Faculty, and Staff.
The American University in Cairo 
November 2019 
 
                                                                                                                                  Page 2 of 8 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
AUC Policies: https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Mr.Hesham Abdel Raouf 
 
Responsible University Office: Controller Office 
 
If you have any questions or concerns relative to either policy or procedures, you may  
 
1. Call Mr.Hesham Abdel Raouf – Accounts Payable Director at Ext: 2336 
 
Or send an e-mail to hesham_r@aucegypt.edu 
 
2. Call Mr.Hossam Abou El Soud – Principal Accountant , Vendor’s Accounts & Contracts  
 
At Ext: 1578 or send an e-mail to hossamsoud@aucegypt.edu 
 
3. For all related SAP issues, please refer to DPO user manual (Appendix A) or 
DPO Video Tutorial as a guide includes all details, steps and how to use all related SAP 
transactions in the DPO process.   
  
      Or call Mr.Hesham Mousa at Ext: 3530 or send an e-mail to hmosa@aucegypt.edu 
 
Definitions 
 
Terms 
Definition as it relates to this policy 
DP 
Direct Purchase 
 
 
 DPO                                          Direct Purchase Order   
Policy/Procedures 
 
General Guidelines for Direct Purchase (DP) and Direct Purchase 
Order (DPO)  
 
Excluded goods and services under DP and DPO: 
 
 Imported non-educational items, as well as hazardous/restricted items that need 
prior government approval (e.g. NTRA, Pharmaceutical authority, National security, 
Laser Institute). 
 Stamps. 
 Stock items available at AUC main stores unless the stock item quantity is not 
sufficient and there is no Purchase Requisition (PR) in place for re-ordering. 
 Fixed asset equipment and furniture. 
The American University in Cairo 
November 2019 
 
                                                                                                                                  Page 3 of 8 
 Used equipment or trade-in items. 
 Contracted Services. 
 Government goods and services (electricity, gas, water, work permits, licenses, etc.). 
 
Department control:   
 
The purchase of specialized goods and services fall under the control of the respective 
department such as: 
 
 IT hardware and software requests are processed through the IT department. 
 Construction goods and materials requests are processed through the construction 
department. 
 
Printed items are processed through AUC Printing Services.  
 
Exceptions to these specialized purchases require the approval of the respective  
department. 
 
Direct purchases from international vendors are allowed subject to the following 
restrictions: 
 
 
The purchased item is not subject to customs. 
 
The purchase process is in compliance with the direct purchase rules and limits.   
 
Approved purchases include subscriptions with international scientific, research, and 
educational organizations.    
 
Direct Purchase for US$ 500 or less per invoice 
 
 There are some types of acquisitions for which purchase orders are neither 
required nor appropriate. The following rules and procedures apply to such 
purchases of goods and services. 
 
 Items authorized for direct acquisition: 
 
 All operational goods and services with an estimated price not to exceed 
$500.00 per invoice. 
 Goods and services obtained from AUC internal outlets (bookstore, press, 
food outlets, etc.) 
 Newspapers advertisements. 
 Goods and services required for emergency or urgent situations. For such 
cases a full explanation and justification are required from the requisitioning 
department explaining the reason(s) for the emergency or urgent situation. 
The head of the requesting department is responsible for submitting the 
explanation in writing and signing off.  
 
 
 
 
 
The American University in Cairo 
November 2019 
 
                                                                                                                                  Page 4 of 8 
Direct purchase criteria: 
 
 Requesting department may not purchase computers, furniture, or any 
other capital assets. 
 Requesting department may not split an order into multiple small orders to 
avoid the unauthorized limit or to avoid the limits of withholding income 
taxes. 
 Requesting department may not make an unauthorized purchase and create 
the required documents after-the-fact. Such action will constitute admission 
of violation of authorized price limits.  
 
 
 Operating procedures to purchase goods and services with a value of US$ 500 or 
less:   
 
If the purchases meet the criteria as noted above, the requesting department may 
use a direct purchase method in accordance with the following steps: 
 
1. The requisitioning department contacts the approved vendor directly for the 
purchase of goods and services, and receipt of the invoice, after obtaining 
signed written approval by the department head certifying that: 
 The needed items are for AUC business purposes. 
 The needed items do not include prohibited items 
(hazardous/restricted). 
 The needed items are in compliance with the direct purchase 
rules and limits. 
 
2. If a department wishes to have a new vendor approved, the Department 
Decision Support Manger must obtain the following documentation from 
the vendor and submit it to the Controller’s Office for approval to be 
included on the SAP master vendor list: 
 Copy of the vendor commercial registry. 
 Copy of the vendor tax ID. 
 Vendor’s bank information.        
 
3. The requesting department upon receiving the goods or services, reviews 
the ordered goods, confirms the quantity, condition and compliance with 
the requested specifications, and prepares and signs the receiving 
documents. The receiving document along with the invoice are submitted to 
the Department Decision Support Manager. 
 
4. The Department Decision Support Manager makes a fund reservation on the 
SAP financial system and prepares a payment request form for signing and 
approval by the head of the requesting department.  
 
5. The Department Decision Support Manager upon receipt of the approved 
payment request form forwards the form along with the following 
documents to the Accounts Payable Unit , Controller’s Office:- 
The American University in Cairo 
November 2019 
 
                                                                                                                                  Page 5 of 8 
 
 The original invoice. 
 The goods received note signed by the authorized officer (as 
applicable). 
 The payment request form with the fund reservation number. 
 The justification letter in case of an emergency or urgent case 
request. 
 
6. The payment is processed by the Accounts Payable Unit within 5 working 
days. 
 
7. Finally, it is important to note that invoices equaling EGP 300 or more are 
subject to withholding income tax. This tax is withheld from the net invoice 
amount excluding any other taxes at the following rates based on Income 
Tax Law # 91 of 2005. 
 
                
 
       Tax rate 
 
Supplies            1%  
 
Services            3% 
 
Direct Purchase Orders for US$ 501 to 2000 per order 
 
The requesting department Decision Support Manager is responsible for all Direct Purchase 
Order prerequisites and requirements. 
 
Direct Purchase order criteria: 
 
Direct Purchase Orders need to comply with the following conditions: 
 
 Order splitting is strictly forbidden i.e. Cost Centers cannot split an order into 
multiple small orders to avoid the $2,000 limit. 
 
 Vendor invoices may cover one or more Direct Purchase Order(s) with the total 
amount not exceeding USD 2,000. 
 
 Full documentation of selected vendor is required prior to placing a Direct PO, 
otherwise, it will be considered as an unauthorized purchase and will be revoked. 
 
 Spare parts or materials covered by agreements or contracts are not eligible for 
Direct PO. 
 
 Staff or faculty can use a Direct PO for reimbursement of goods and services 
purchased with personal funds provided the goods and services fall within the 
Direct PO guidelines and limits. 
 
 
The American University in Cairo 
November 2019 
 
                                                                                                                                  Page 6 of 8 
Operating procedures to purchase goods and services with a value of US$ 501 to $ 2,000: 
 
The Requesting Department validates and ensures that prior to starting the Direct 
Purchase process all the prerequisites listed below are in place: 
 
1. The store officer in the requesting department/unit must ensure that the 
needed items are not available in the AUC main store or department store.  
 
2. The Head of requesting Department approves that: 
 The requested items are for AUC business purposes. 
 The requested items do not breach the list of prohibited categories 
(included in the policy document) excluded from direct purchase orders. 
 
 
3. If a department wishes to have a new vendor approved, the Department Decision 
Support Manger must obtain the following documentation from the vendor and 
submit it to the Controller’s Office for approval for approval to be included on 
the SAP master vendor list: 
 Copy of the vendor commercial registry. 
 Copy of the vendor tax ID. 
 Vendor’s bank information.        
      
4. The Requesting Department submits the purchasing request on the SAP 
Procurement System as outlined in Appendix A, Direct Purchase Order 
Process Manual, and as summarized below: 
 
 The requesting Department Decision Support Manager releases the PO to 
the vendor after securing the signature of the head of the requesting 
department and ensuring its compliance with this policy. 
 
 If the cost is to be charged to an external funded grant, the Grants 
Accounts Office approves the Purchase Requisition to confirm the cost is 
funded from an external grant. 
 
 Upon the receipt of the goods or services, the Requesting Department 
submits the following documents directly to the requesting Department 
Decision Support Manager within the department/unit to start processing 
the payment: 
a. Completed Direct PO Form generated from the SAP Procurement 
System. 
b. Original detailed invoice. 
c. A proof of receipt of the goods or service. 
 
 The requesting Department Decision Support Manager will review the 
above documents and ensure its compliance with this policy, and 
prepares the relevant payment request. 
 This payment request is signed by the Head of the requesting 
department. 
The American University in Cairo 
November 2019 
 
                                                                                                                                  Page 7 of 8 
 Upon the requesting Department Decision Support Manager releasing 
the documents to the Controller’s Office, the payment is processed by 
the Accounts Payable Section within 5 working days.  
 The procedures and rules for the reimbursement for staff/faculty for 
direct purchases are the same as the DP or DPO policies and procedures 
based on the goods/services value limits. 
 
 Invoices equaling EGP 300 or more are subject to withholding income tax. This 
tax is withheld from the net invoice amount excluding any other taxes at the 
following rates based on Income Tax Law # 91 of 2005. 
 
                
        Tax rate 
- 
Supplies            1%  
- 
Services            3% 
 
Monitoring and Compliance 
 
 In case there is no Department Decision Support Manager or store officer in the 
requesting department/unit, the head of the requesting department assigns a full 
time employee for their tasks and responsibilities. This action should be 
documented by email or official letter. Meanwhile, the Controller’s Office will 
review and control all documents to make sure that all documents are eligible for 
the DPO policies and procedures. If the submitted documents contain any kind of 
violations, the Controller’s Office has the right to revoke processing of these 
documents. 
 
 The Controller’s Office will create a report every 3 months for the DPO transactions 
and share this report with the Procurement Office with any recommendations of 
repetitive vendors, materials or any kind of policy violation that may need to be 
considered by the procurement office and/or escalated to Internal Audit for review. 
 
 A semi-annual review will be performed in order to monitor the application of this 
policy, to see if any amendment is required in addition this review will help AUC 
administration to measure that all purchases are processed in compliance with AUC 
polices. 
 
Forms/Instructions  
 
Relevant information can be found at (http://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies ) 
 
Related Information (http://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies ) 
 
Financial Polices, General Guidelines  
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: November, 2019 
The American University in Cairo 
November 2019 
 
                                                                                                                                  Page 8 of 8 
 
Last Amended Date: November, 2019 
 
Next Review Date: June, 2020 
 
This document will be revised and supplemented, as required, to meet new needs and 
conditions. Revised pages will be sent to all holders who are responsible for keeping the 
manual current.  
 
An important part of this updating process depends on the constructive comments, 
information, and suggestions received from you, the users. Your comments are highly 
appreciated.  

1 
 
 
DRUG AND ALCOHOL  
 
AUC STUDENTS POLICY 
 
 
 
Policy Statement  
As per the US and Egyptian Laws, AUC has decided to implement the following drug and 
alcohol policy. All University students are required to abide by the terms of this policy.  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
The objective of this policy is to provide the students’ community with a safe environment that is 
conducive to learning. Students are expected to participate in academic and extracurricular life at 
AUC unimpeded by drugs or alcohol, except as prescribed by licensed doctor.  
 
Institutional Responsibility 
In collaboration with the Well-being Office, constituents at AUC community including but not 
limited to the Student Union (SU); First Year Experience (FYE)  are to be actively engaged 
raising awareness about the issues related to alcohol and drug abuse. 
 
Who Approved This Policy 
University Provost, Ehab Abdel Rahman 
The Senate (2017) 
  
Who Needs to Know This Policy 
Enrolled students 
  
Web Address for this Policy 
http://in.aucegypt.edu/university-policies 
 
Contacts 
Dean of Students, Office of the Dean of Students 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for the Drug and Alcohol Free Campus 
policy, you may: 
1. Call the Executive Assistant to the Dean of Students , ext 2218 or from off campus 
(02) 2615-2218 
2. Send an e-mail to deanofstudents@aucegypt.edu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Definitions 
Terms 
Definition as it relates to this policy 
Student 
All enrolled students, both degree-seeking and non-degree, 
both Egyptian and non-Egyptian, both undergraduate and 
graduate, both full- and part-time 
AUC Property 
 
All areas or facilities owned by AUC, including both the New 
Cairo and Tahrir Campuses and any other property off 
campus, such as housing facilities 
AUC Sponsored Events 
Any event, whether on or off campus, that is sponsored or 
held by any organizational unit belonging to or within AUC 
Authorized Personnel  
 
 
 
 
● AUC Clinic Medical Personnel 
● Dean of Students  
● Well-being Office Personnel  
● Chaperone for off campus events in Egypt or abroad. 
 
Justifiable Cause 
A cause that is based on a well-founded belief. 
Reasonable Suspicion 
1. Direct observation of the physical symptoms of being 
impaired by drugs or alcohol: 
 Physical signs 
▪ 
Bloodshot eyes/dilated pupils. 
▪ 
Slurred speech. 
▪ 
Unsteady walk/uncoordinated movements. 
▪ 
Shakes or tremors. 
▪ 
Unexplained sweating or shivering. 
▪ 
Fidgeting/inability to sit still. 
▪ 
Unusual body or breath odor. 
▪ 
Deterioration in appearance/grooming. 
2. A pattern of abnormal conduct with the following 
symptoms: 
Psychological signs: 
 Sudden mood changes, threatening behavior towards 
themselves or others, or inappropriate laughing. 
 Unexplained fear or paranoia. 
 Inability to focus or concentrate on simple and 
straightforward tasks 
3. Evidence that a student has tampered with a previous drug 
test. 
3 
 
Refusal to submit 
To obstruct the collection or testing process; to submit an 
altered, adulterated, or substitute sample; to fail to show up 
for a scheduled test; to refuse to complete the requested forms; 
or to fail to promptly provide a specimen(s) for testing when 
asked to do so, without a valid medical basis for the failure. 
Chain of custody 
The procedures beginning at the time of collection a sample to 
account for all handling and storage of each specimen 
Confirmatory test 
A second laboratory procedure used to analyze a positive test 
result from a screening test. Gas chromatography/mass 
spectrometry (GC/MS) is the only authorized confirmation 
test. 
Cutoff level 
The concentration of a drug or drug metabolite in the urine at 
which a specimen is considered positive. 
Medical Review Officer 
(MRO) 
A licensed physician who is qualified to interpret and evaluate 
test results and other relevant medical information. 
 
 
 
Policy/Procedures 
The university may conduct drug and/or alcohol testing under any of the following 
circumstances: 
▪ 
FOR-CAUSE TESTING: Only authorized personnel may ask a student to submit to a 
drug and/or alcohol test in the cases of evidence of use, or a justifiable cause, such as 
possession and/or distribution of drugs or alcohol on or about the student’s person or 
in the student’s vicinity. 
o Note: Because the symptoms listed under the definitions of reasonable suspicion 
could be attributable to causes other than drugs or alcohol, the person reporting the 
student will document those facts that led him/her to believe the student was 
impaired. In addition, the AUC clinic will evaluate the student before testing to 
ensure that other likely causes have been reasonably considered.  
▪ 
POST-ACCIDENT TESTING: If a student is involved1 in an accident on-AUC 
property or at an AUC sponsored event off campus, or who sustains an injury on 
AUC or at an AUC sponsored event where there is justifiable cause to be asked to 
submit to a drug and/or alcohol test. 
▪ 
OFF-SITE TESTING: If there is justifiable cause to suspect a student is in violation 
of the drug and alcohol policy while on a sponsored trip or event off campus, whether 
in Egypt or abroad, he/she may be tested at a local facility or even possibly sent back 
to Egypt to be tested if necessary. 
                                                
1 Meaning either the student who bears some form of injury as a result of mishap or someone potentially 
directly or indirectly causing the accident or injury in some way. 
4 
 
Confirmation and Documentation of Suspicion 
 
Note: When a member of faculty, staff, administration, security, or another student has 
reasonable suspicion that another student is impaired by drugs or alcohol, if at all possible he or 
she should immediately inform one of the following to confirm the observation and suspicion: 
● another faculty or staff member 
● another administrator 
● another security officer 
● another student 
● an AUC chaperone 
 
Assuming a second person was available and the suspicion has been confirmed by a second 
person, the reporting person should then inform one of the Authorized Personnel and Security (if 
needed), to escort the impaired student to the clinic. If the incident is offsite, then the person 
should notify the chaperone. In all cases and immediately after reporting, the reporters must 
write a statement documenting their belief for reasonable suspicion. This report should be sent to 
the dean of students, where it shall remain confidential. The use of the report will be limited to 
those who handle conduct cases at AUC. 
 
 
Amnesty Guidelines: 
In emergency cases, when a student (or an individual) aids an intoxicated or impaired individual 
by contacting any Authorized Personnel or Security for assistance or bringing the individual to 
the clinic neither the intoxicated individual nor the individual or student reporting the emergency 
will be subject to formal student conduct action for the consumption of alcohol or other drugs as 
a first offence. 
Fordham University: 
http://www.fordham.edu/info/21684/university regulations/3724/medical amnesty policy 
 
 
Drugs Covered: 
Any drug that is prohibited by law or must be prescribed but for which the student does not have 
a prescription. Specimens may only be tested for the covered drugs and the specimen may not be 
used to conduct any other analysis or test. 
 
On Campus Drug Specimen Collection Procedures: 
● The student is not to provide any information about prescription or over-the-counter 
medication to the clinic or the certified testing laboratory. A standard drug testing 
custody and control form must be used.  
○ Note: A statement on the form informs the student that if there is a positive test, 
the MRO will contact the student about prescription and over-the-counter 
medications. The student may list medications only on the student's copy of the 
form.  
5 
 
 
 
● The collection site must be secured. 
 
● The chain of custody form must be completed and shipped to the certified testing 
laboratory with the specimen. 
 
● The collection site person is the individual that ensures that the urine specimen is 
collected according to required procedures. 
 
● Collection of urine specimens must allow individual privacy unless there is strong, 
justifiable cause that a particular person may alter or substitute the specimen. If specimen 
collection is directly observed by another person, the person must be of the same gender 
as the student.  
 
● A "split sample" of urine is collected. In the split sample method, the urine specimen is 
divided into two containers. The purpose of the split sample is to allow the student the 
opportunity to have the specimen retested at a different certified laboratory for immediate 
testing. 
 
● A student must provide at least 45 ml (milliliters) of urine. Failure to provide an adequate 
amount of urine is considered a refusal to submit to a controlled substance test and the 
student is considered to have engaged in actions prohibited by these rules. If the student 
is unable to provide the minimum amount of urine, the collection site person is to have 
the student drink up to 24 ounces of fluid and try to provide a sample within two hours. If 
the student is still unable to provide a complete sample, the test is stopped and the student 
is sent for a medical evaluation to determine if there is a legitimate reason for failure to 
provide a specimen or there is a refusal to submit a specimen. 
 
            On campus drug specimen collection is to be validated by the AUC clinic. 
 
 
Dealing with a Positive Case 
1. The AUC clinic receives a confirmation from the Certified Testing Laboratory. 
2. A letter is delivered to the student including the positive test result and requiring him/her 
to abide by the recovery protocol. The letter states the consequences of not attending the 
rehabilitative treatment or having a second-offense. 
3. A medical report is prepared by the head of Medical Services describing the history of 
the case in addition to the results of the two labs. These are sent to the Dean of Students. 
  
 
 
6 
 
 
 
Rehabilitation program 
A recovery protocol is administered for students who test positive under the supervision of the 
University Psychiatrist/Well-being. 
  
Students (or their guardians if under 21 years of age) have the option of choosing treatment by an 
external psychiatrist provided that the name and contact info of that psychiatrist are provided to 
the AUC clinic and Dean of Students. 
  
For a student whose treatment takes place at a rehabilitation center off-campus, the student 
should sign a consent form to allow a resident psychiatrist or MRO to communicate with the 
psychiatrists at the rehabilitation center. 
 
The Recovery Protocol includes the following 
1. The student meets the Psychiatrist at the Office of Well-being as determined by the 
psychiatrist. 
2. The Psychiatrist monitors the condition of the case, records in a file the details of each 
visit, and advises appropriate recovery procedures and medicines if any. A file is created 
for each case. Only information the student consents to sharing will be provided to 
authorized personnel or third parties. In the very exception that the psychiatrist finds the 
student to be in a position of threat to themselves or others, they can share the student's 
information with the authorized personnel and third parties. The psychiatrist can present 
progress reports to the authorized personnel and third parties if deemed necessary by the 
authorized personnel, provided that they ensure student's consent with the sharing of 
personal information and uphold the student's privacy. FERPA guidelines to be 
followed". 
3. The AUC clinic, in consultation with the Office of Student Well-being, shall set a 
deadline for positive cases to quit/stop the drug use. 
4. After the requested period needed to quit has passed, cases are re-tested without further 
notice.  
5. A student whose retested cases are negative for two consecutive times, will no longer be 
subjected to follow-up testing. 
 
Positive results for the second time 
If a student tests positive during a retest after the period to quit has expired, the Office of Well-
being or the AUC clinic will report this to the Dean of Students, who will refer the case to the 
Student Disciplinary Committee.   
 
When a student refuses psychiatric counseling, a letter is sent to the Dean of Students. 
 
7 
 
 
Alcohol Testing Procedures 
Alcohol using students come to the clinic either by self-referral or referral from the Dean of 
Students / Faculty member if an incidence of active using of Alcohol or being under effect of 
alcohol was reported in AUC. 
● The first step is medical and psychiatric, so alcohol use assessments are done with blood 
assessment of alcohol level. 
● Then, according to the assessment, either the student is referred for inpatient 
detoxification or he/she is enrolled in the alcohol treatment program. 
● The alcohol treatment program consists of 6 sessions of Motivational Interviewing and 
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy as well as appropriate pharmacotherapy, if needed. 
● Relapse prevention sessions are then applied once per month with a recommendation for 
the client to join a self-help group such as Alcoholic Anonymous. 
● If the student is referred by the Dean of Students / Faculty member, coordination with the 
Dean of Students is established according to AUC policy. 
 
Confidentiality, Accountability, and Protections: 
● All forms of communication are to be provided in hardcopy and in writing, on a strictly 
need to know basis. 
● Privacy and confidentiality will be maintained and no record will be added to the 
student’s transcripts in case of a student’s violation of the said Drug and Alcohol Policy. 
● The Office of Well-being works in close coordination with the Clinic and maintains the 
highest level of confidentiality with regard to counseling and medical records. 
● To ensure justifiable cause is followed in testing, all reporters are required to submit a 
detailed written report explaining the details of the situation that deemed there to be 
justifiable cause for testing. 
● False accusations by anyone in within the AUC community are treated seriously, 
including accusations of drug or alcohol use.  False accusations are covered by AUC’s 
Code of Conduct. 
● The university will NOT conduct random testing of students unless required to by 
Egyptian or U.S. law. 
 
 
History/Revision Dates 
Origination Date: June 2, 2017 
Last Amended Date: June 2, 2017 
Senate Review Date: December 2017.  
Next Review Date: June 2, 2018 


Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Electronic Mail (Email) Policy • Page 1 of 7  
October  2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: [ ELECTRONIC MAIL (Email) POLICY – Oct. 2022]  
  
Approval date: [ August 2017 ]  
  
Purpose of document: [The Email policy governs usage of the University's Email system]  
  
Office/department responsible: [ Official of Information Security]  
Approved by: [ Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer ]  
  
Document classification level: [ PUBLIC ]  
  
Document accessible: [ https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]  
  
Document includes: [ Policy ]   
  
Related documents/see also: [ Information Security Policy, Acceptable Usage Policy ]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
ELECTRONIC MAIL (Email) POLICY  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
The American University in Cairo (AUC) provides its community with different electronic 
communication tools, including the Email system. The Email system supports the educational, 
research, and administrative activities of the University. It conducts a means of official 
communication among the members of AUC community and the external world.  
  
AUC strongly encourages its community to use electronic mail to support its activities and 
promotes best practice guidelines to make that usage efficient and professional.  
  
The Email policy governs the usage of the University's Email system.  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
• 
To prevent unauthorized or inadvertent disclosure of sensitive AUC information  
• 
To regulate Email usage for AUC's benefit  
• 
To prevent tarnishing the public image of AUC  
• 
To protect the university's legal position  
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022 
  
Electronic Mail (Email) Policy • Page 2 of 7  
• 
To provide confidentiality of communications, protection of privacy, and compliance 
with other university policies.  
  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
This Email policy and rules apply to all members of the AUC community who are entitled to 
Email services. These include but are not limited to full-time or part-time faculty or staff, 
students, admins, alumni, independent contractors, interns, consultants, suppliers, clients, and 
other third parties. 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Electronic Mail (Email) Policy • Page 3 of 7  
  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security, and Risk Officer  
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security 
  
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an email to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
Definitions  
 
  
Term (alphabetical order)  
Definition as it relates to this policy  
Chain Email  
Email sent to successive people. Typically, the body of the 
message attempts to convince the recipient to make  
a number of copies of the message and pass them on to as many 
recipients as possible. It might promise the recipient of good 
luck and/or money or threaten him with bad luck and/or physical 
violence.  
Credentials  
Username and Password plus any other type of authentication if 
exist  
Email  
Electronic Mail - A method of exchanging digital messages from 
a sender to one or more recipients.  
Forwarded Email  
To resend an Email you received to other recipients  
Sensitive information  
Any Information is considered sensitive if it can affect AUC's 
business and reputation if disclosed  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022 
  
Electronic Mail (Email) Policy • Page 4 of 7  
 
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
General  
  
1. Using the AUC Email account acknowledges the user's knowledge and acceptance of 
this policy and other AUC policies  
2. The sender's identity, whether institutional or individual, must be clearly identifiable in 
all transmitted messages.  
3. Email users have the responsibility to secure their Email credentials and to change them 
immediately if they suspect any disclosure  
4. Emails accounts credentials can't be shared or used by different persons at any time  
5. Mass mailing to the AUC community is only allowed through the University's 
administrator's approval  
6. AUC Email service usage is governed under AUC Acceptable usage policy and other 
related AUC policies  
7. Email messages & other related contents that are stored, created, and sent from AUC 
Email service are the property of the university. AUC reserve the right to monitor all 
emails transmitted for security and compliance.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
September 2022  
  
Electronic Mail (Email) Policy • Page 5 of 7  
8. The Information Security Office highly recommends that any information users 
consider sensitive or vulnerable be encrypted in order to add an extra layer of security  
9. AUC has the authority to access and inspect the contents of any AUC email on a 
temporary or permanent basis; the access process is governed by AUC president’s 
approval. 
10. The creation and termination of AUC email accounts are governed through the "Email 
Creation and Termination Rules & Procedures "document.  
11. AUC has the right to suspend, disable or terminate any AUC Email account on a 
temporary or permanent basis according to the management decision, end of the Email 
user relationship with AUC, or according to security risks or violation that are related 
to this account. 
12. The Email service is an official way of communication in AUC, so all AUC Email 
users need to check their email on a frequent and consistent basis in recognition that 
certain communications may be time-critical.  
13. Departmental accounts & credentials can't be used for other purposes other than 
sending and receiving emails. 
14. Any AUC community member who both works and studies or had studied at AUC 
must have two separate AUC Email accounts, one for business and another one as a 
student or an Alumni.  
  
  
Email Usage Scope for Staff, Faculty & Consultants  
  
1. Email usage is restricted to AUC business correspondence and must be consistent with 
the relationship the individual has with the University.  
2. Incidental personal usage is allowed putting into consideration that AUC is not 
responsible for personal emails storage, preservation, or extraction. 
3. Email users shouldn't forward business Emails to any personal account, Email 
account's setting should be adjusted to keep copies in the AUC Inbox even if the user 
is using the email client option (Like Outlook)    
  
Security & Privacy of Email  
  
AUC will employ its best efforts to provide secure, private, and reliable Email services by 
following sound information technology practices. However, AUC cannot fully guarantee the 
security, privacy, or reliability of the Email service, putting into consideration that the Email 
service depends on third-party service providers. All Email users, therefore, should exercise 
extreme caution in using AUC Email to communicate confidential or sensitive matters.  
  
Prohibited Use: The AUC's Email system should not be used for the creation or distribution 
of any disruptive or offensive messages: including but not limited to offensive comments 
about race, gender, hair, color, disabilities, age, sexual orientation, pornography, religious 
beliefs and practice, political beliefs, or national origin.  
  
Email must not be sent in such a way as to harass others. Email users must not engage in 
frivolous, disturbing, or otherwise inconsiderate use or conduct in violations of the 
University's status as an independent, non-profit, apolitical, non-sectarian, and equal 
opportunity institution.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
September 2022  
  
Electronic Mail (Email) Policy • Page 6 of 7  
  
Legal Framework:   
  
All Email users must operate within the laws of all appropriate jurisdictions that apply, 
including the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). AUC Email is 
subject to the full range of laws applying to other communications, including copyright, 
breach of confidence, defamation, privacy, contempt of court, harassment, vilification, anti-
discrimination legislation, the creation of contractual obligations, and criminal laws.  
  
15. For the purposes of disposal and retention, Email should be treated in the same way as 
regular mail and paper documents.  
16. If required by law, AUC will provide relevant information to law enforcement entities.  
17. Abuses of AUC's Email services should be directed to infosec@aucegypt.edu or the 
Information Security Office.  
18. AUC Email users understand and acknowledge that in cases of prosecution or court 
orders and/or for the purpose of an internal investigation, the University shall have the 
full right to authorize access to users' email accounts and related data logs.  
  
Guidelines OF USE:  
  
1. Hacking: AUC Email users should be extremely cautious when opening any 
attachments, clicking on any link, or responding to any Email.  
a. Forms sent via Email from an unknown sender should never be filled out.  
b. Contact IT Help Desk "support@aucegypt.edu" in case of suspecting any 
received Email  
c. Report suspicious Emails through the “fish” icon on the Email.  
2. Password Protection: AUC's policy requires the use of strong passwords for the 
protection of Emails. Kindly refer to the AUC password policy.  
3. Departmental Email Boxes: Departments that provide services via Email should create 
departmental Email boxes. This departmental Email must have one defined owner, 
while all targeted recipients in the department can receive Emails through auto-
forwarding and send Emails through the "send as" option.  
  
Examples of prohibited uses of Email include but are not limited to:  
  
1. Intentional and unauthorized access to other AUC Email accounts   
2. Sending "spam," chain letters, or any other type of widespread unauthorized 
distribution of unsolicited Emails;  
3. Sharing AUC Email addresses lists with anyone who hasn't this right or privilege  
4. Use of Email for commercial activities or personal gain, or non-AUC business (except 
as specifically authorized by University policy and in accord with University 
procedures)  
5. Use of Email for partisan political or lobbying activities. 
6. Use of Email for hacking purposes. 
7. Creation and use of a false or alias Email address in order to impersonate another or 
send fraudulent communications. 
8. Use of Email to transmit materials in a manner that violates USA & Egyptian Laws 
and regulations. 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
September 2022  
  
Electronic Mail (Email) Policy • Page 7 of 7  
9. Use of Email to send inappropriate content  
10. Giving the impression you are representing the University unless you are authorized 
to do so  
11. Impersonating someone else. 
12. Sharing Email credentials with any party. 
13. Forwarding or sharing "this includes associated storage services" any AUC business-
related or sensitive information to other non-AUC email or any unauthorized person 
unless the recipient has to get this information for a valid business need or the recipient 
entity has signed an official Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)  
  
Violation Penalties  
  
Any user found to have violated this policy (or part thereof) may be subject to disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination of employment or dismissal from the University.  
  
The University has the right to change this policy as necessary without notification.  
  
 
Forms/Instructions   
 
  
List applicable forms or other university and external documents that provide helpful, relevant 
information. Include where these documents can be located.  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
May 2014  
Last Amended Date:  October 2022  
Last Review Date: 
October 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October 2025  


 
 
Policy Title 
Fail to Pay Policy 
 
Responsible University Office   
Accounts Receivables Office 
Policy Owner  
Ms. Amira Gaber – Acting Senior Director – Accounts 
Receivables 
Pertinent Dates  
This policy was revised in June 2021 and approved to be 
applied effective Fall 2021. 
 
 
I. 
SCOPE OF POLICY 
 
 
Fail to Pay Policy is applied to all AUC students who pay tuition fees; these being self-paying students, 
students whose tuition are being paid by sponsored or companies. Audit Teams, Regulatory Bodies in 
both Egypt and the United States should know this policy. 
 
The purpose of this policy is to streamline a clear process for fail to pay tuition fees and to ensure that AUC 
obtains the best value for its revenue and tuition fees collection while ensuring that all processes abide by 
the highest level of institutional and personal integrity.     
 
 
II. 
DEFINITIONS 
 
 
Fail to pay: means students who fail to pay their tuition fees before the specified deadlines mentioned in 
the academic calendar and billing announcements.  
 
 
 
III. 
POLICY STATEMENT 
 
 
This policy document sets out the fundamental tuition fees charging principles of AUC. It explains the 
importance of paying tuition fees before the specified deadlines. The document indicates the 
consequences of non-payment in tuition fees and the appeals process that can be followed. 
 
This document will be revised and supplemented, as required, to meet new needs and conditions. Revised 
pages will be sent to all holders who are responsible for keeping the manual current.   
  
An important part of this updating process depends on the constructive comments, information, and 
suggestions received from you, the users. Your comments are highly appreciated.   
 
 
 
IV. 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
 
 
This policy must be implemented by all AUC community, faculty, staff and students.  
 
 
V. 
POLICY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES 
 
• 
Once the student is accepted for admission and enrolling in classes, each student accepts 
responsibility for paying all debts to the University, including a non-refundable deposit for new 
students, tuition and fees according to the academic price list, for which he or she is liable. An 
individual's registration as AUC student constitutes his or her agreement to make timely payment 
of all amounts due. 
• 
Students retain ultimate liability for the payment of their deposit, tuition fees, whether invoiced or 
not, including where sponsorship agreements have been approved. 
• 
Students who fail to pay by the payment deadlines WIL NOT be Automatically/Administratively 
dropped from their registered classes. 
• 
Students who opt to drop course/s must do so via the official channel with the Registrar, as per 
the announced deadlines on the academic calendar.  
• 
Course/s dropped AFTER the closure of the drop/add dates of each semester/session WILL 
HAVE tuition billing charges, regardless of the fact have the student been attending or not. 
• 
Students who fail to pay by the payment deadlines will have a financial hold put on their record 
until the pending amount is paid. They will not have access to the transcripts or be eligible to 
register for the following semester, and whatever other restrictions currently exist when a student 
has a financial hold.  
• 
Late fees will be charged to the student BANNER account; removal of the late fees and the 
course fees is allowed only if the student is going through force majeure and provide the 
Financial Committee with adequate documents to support his case. 
• 
AUC Registrar is responsible to publish drop and add dates on AUC website it is the student 
responsibility to visit the website to adhere to important deadlines. 
 
VI. 
FORMS/INSTRUCTIONS (if applicable) 
 
 
There are no forms applicable to this policy. 
 
VII. 
APPENDICES (if applicable) 
 
 
There are no appendices applicable to this policy.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VIII. 
CONTACT INFORMATION 
 
 
If you have any questions or concerns relative to either policy or procedures, please call 
  
1. Ms. Amira Gaber – Acting Senior Director – Accounts Receivables, Ext: 2339 
 or send an e-mail to amira_hg@aucegypt.edu   
  
2. Mr. Mohamed El Sergany – Director - Student Accounting, Ext: 2448  
or send an e-mail to msergany@aucegypt.edu   
 
3. Ms. Rasha Mahmoud – University Registrar- Office of the Registrar, Ext: 2443  
or send an e-mail to rashama@aucegypt.edu   
 
 
 
 

Final Children in the Workplace Policy - Approved May 30, 2019 – Effective June 2, 2019 
 
I. 
SCOPE OF POLICY  
 
This policy outlines the circumstances under which it is appropriate to bring children into the workplace, 
provides guidance on practices to ensure the safety of visiting children at all times, while avoiding 
disruptions to the working environment.  
 
II. 
POLICY STATEMENT 
 
AUC recognizes that employees may occasionally want to bring children to the workplace for brief 
visits, specific events, or childcare emergencies.  However, employees should not bring to the 
workplace children who are unable to attend their normal childcare arrangements due to illness.  
Employees may not bring children to the workplace for extended periods, or on a repeated basis, 
in lieu of regular private childcare arrangements, nor leave them unattended at any time.    
 
IV. 
POLICY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES 
 
A.  The University understands that in an emergency situation, an employee may judge it necessary 
to bring his or her child into the workplace. Under such circumstance, the employee must contact 
his or her supervisor in advance or as soon as practicable to discuss the situation and obtain written 
permission to have the child accompany him or her while working. Factors to be considered by the 
supervisor for granting permission are:  
1. the age of the child; 
2. the supervisory needs of the child; 
3. how long the child will be present; 
4. work environment of the employee (e.g. location, scheduled events, etc.); and 
5. any possible disruption to the employee and co-workers’ work. 
 
B.  If approval to bring a child to the workplace is granted, employee must take full responsibility 
for the child and adhere to these guidelines to ensure the safety of the child and to limit disruption 
to colleagues: 
1. the employee must supervise and accompany his or her child at all times while on the 
campus; 
2. if the employee must leave the child at any time, he or she must arrange alternative 
supervision for that period;  
3. the child must not use any of the University equipment or resources; and  
4. the employee must minimize disruption to co-workers.  
 
C.  Any employee who violates this policy may be subject to disciplinary action.  Any injury or 
harm to a child resulting from an employee’s violation of this policy will be the sole responsibility 
of the employee.   
Section: 
 
Policy Name: 
 
Policy Manager/ Responsible  
University Office: 
 
Responsible University Office: 
 
Supervisory Cabinet Officer: 
 
Origination Date: 
Human Resource Policies 
 
Children in the Workplace Policy 
 
Senior Associate Vice President for Human Resources 
 
 
Human Resources Office 
 
Vice President for University Affairs 
 
June 2, 2019  

Policy Title 
Financial Hold Policy 
 
Responsible University Office  
Accounts Receivables Office 
Policy Owner 
Mr. Mohamed El Sergany – Director, Student Accounting
Pertinent Dates 
This policy was revised in July 2023 and approved to be 
applied effective Fall 2023. 
I.
SCOPE OF POLICY
Financial Hold Policy is applied to all AUC students. the Audit teams, and Regulatory Bodies in both 
Egypt and United States should know this policy.  
The Purpose of this policy is to maximize the collection of tuitions and meet AUC cash flow requirements 
and decrease receivables. 
This policy provides better control over the collections and management of student accounts and to 
encourage students to manage their accounts and settle their financial obligations.  
II.
DEFINITIONS
Financial Hold is a type of restriction imposed by AUC as a result of students are not paying their fees in 
full. This hold prevents students from enrolling in courses and accessing their transcripts. In order for this 
hold to be lifted, students must fully pay off any outstanding charges. 
III.
POLICY STATEMENT
Financial hold policy enables AUC to place financial holds on the students who have outstanding financial 
obligations with the university to ensure payments are made on a timely manner basis for all services or 
transactions. 
This document will be revised and supplemented, as required, to meet new needs and conditions. Revised 
pages will be sent to all holders who are responsible for keeping the manual current.   
An important part of this updating process depends on the constructive comments, information, and 
suggestions received from you, the users.   
IV.
RESPONSIBILITIES
This policy must be implemented by all AUC community, faculty, staff and students. 
V.
POLICY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES
The Student Accounts Office will activate financial hold on students who have outstanding balances 
USD 300 or equivalent in EGP on Banner record, which prevents registration, transcripts, and 
enrollment certificates  
For students who have fewer amounts due different types of financial hold will be activated onto the 
student Banner record, allowing registration but preventing transcripts and enrollment certificates.  Only 
students who have zero balance will receive transcripts, receive graduation certificates, or enrollment 
certificates. 
A student may place a financial petition if he/she expects his/her situation warrants an exception to financial 
policies and regulations, a Financial Committee consisting of: 
-
AVP for Finance and CFO or delegated personnel
-
Accounts Receivable Senior Director and
-
Students Accounts Office Director
is authorized to approve students petitions and is entitled to request documentations that support the students 
case and remove the financial hold for the student to register his courses; whenever the committee recommend 
the case may be transmitted to the Students Financial Affairs to consider financial aid. 
Students who fail to abide by the financial requirements after hold removal will not be entitled to file any 
similar requests in the future. 
VI.
FORMS/INSTRUCTIONS (if applicable)
There are no forms applicable to this policy. 
VII.
APPENDICES (if applicable)
There are no appendices applicable to this policy. 
VIII.
CONTACT INFORMATION
If you have any questions or concerns relative to either policy or procedures, please call 
Mr. Mohamed El Sergany – Director - Student Accounting, Ext: 2448
or send an e-mail to msergany@aucegypt.edu

The American University in Cairo                                                       August 10, 2017  
  
  
 FIREARMS AND WEAPONS POLICY   
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
All members of the American University in Cairo (“AUC” or “the University”) community, as well 
as visitors, are prohibited from possessing firearms, explosives or weapons (hereafter referred to as  
“weapons”) on the premises of the University without the explicit advance authorization of the 
University, regardless of any license to possess the same has been issued to the possessor.  
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
The University is committed to maintaining a safe and secure environment to conduct educational 
and research activities. This policy is a proactive step towards reducing the risk of injury or death 
associated with intentional or accidental use of weapons. 
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Mr. Brian MacDougall, Executive Vice President for Administration and Finance  
Gen. Mohamed Ebeid, Executive Director for Safety and Security  
  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
AUC community and visitors.  
  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
 University Policies  
  
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                       August 10, 2017  
  
 
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Executive Director for Safety and Security  
  
Responsible University Office: Safety and Security Office  
  
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for firearms and weapons policy, you may:   
  
1. Call New Cairo campus Security Office at 2615-4444 or Tahrir Square campus Security Office at 
2615-6666  
  
2. Send an e-mail to aucsecurity@aucegypt.edu   
  
 
 
Definitions  
 
  
  
Term (alphabetical order)  
Definition as it relates to this policy  
Explosives  
Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that contains 
any oxidizing and combustible units, or other ingredients, in such 
proportion, quantities or packing that an ignition or detonation by 
fire, friction, concussion, percussion, static, RF (radio frequency) 
energy or detonator, or any part of the compound or mixture, 
may cause a sudden generation of highly heated gases that results 
in gaseous pressures capable of producing destructive efforts on 
contiguous objects or of destroying life or limb. This includes, 
but is not limited to, firecrackers, black powder, dynamite, plastic 
explosive, or any improvised compound with the same properties 
etc. as well as detonating devices such as detonators, blasting 
caps, timers, incendiary wire and the like.  
Firearm  
Any device that shoots a bullet, pellet, flare, tranquilizer, spear 
dart, or other projectile, whether loaded or unloaded, including 
those powered by CO2. This includes, but is not limited to, guns, 
air guns, dart guns, pistols, revolvers, rifles, shot guns, cannons, 
and plastic firearms made with 3-D printers and copying 
technology, and any ammunition for any such device.  
University community  
Students, faculty and staff  
The American University in Cairo                                                       August 10, 2017  
  
Weapon  
  
Any device that is designed to or traditionally used to inflict 
harm. This includes, but is not limited to: 1) firearms, slingshots, 
switchblades, daggers, blackjacks, brass knuckles, bows and 
arrows, hand grenades, hunting knives, nun-chucks, throwing 
stars, etc.; 2) any object that could be reasonably construed as a 
weapon; or 3) any object legally controlled as a weapon or 
treated as a weapon under the laws of the jurisdiction in which 
the University premises is located.  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
All faculty, staff, students and visitors to the University are strictly prohibited from possessing 
firearms, ammunition for any caliber of firearm, explosives or weapons (hereafter referred to as 
“weapons”) on the premises of the university without the explicit advance authorization of the 
university, regardless of any license to possess the same has been issued to the possessor.  
  
Anyone possessing a weapon will be asked to remove it from the University premises immediately. 
They may also be subject to disciplinary action.  
  
This Policy permits lawful possession, use and storage of weapons that falls within the scope of a 
person’s employment at the University. For example, this Policy does not prohibit the authorized 
possession, use and storage of radioactive materials and the like in connection with laboratory 
research, or the authorized possession, use and storage of knives in connection with food 
preparation or consumption; or the authorized use, possession and storage of saws and the like by 
Facilities Management employees or contractors.  
  
Exceptions to this policy might be granted to University sanctioned groups or events where a 
particular weapon is a required part of the curriculum or activity, for example, martial arts 
classes/clubs; fencing classes/clubs; theatrical events, etc.. Persons subject to this exemption must 
obtain the explicit advance authorization of the University by making written application to the 
Executive Director of Safety and Security.   
  
Possession of imitation or replica weapon on University premises or at University activities or 
events are prohibited except as specifically authorized by University Safety and Security Office.  
  
Exceptions to this policy must be requested in writing to the Executive Director of Safety and 
Security. Only under the most unusual circumstance will a request for an exception be granted.  
  
Any student, faculty or staff member violating this policy shall be subject to the disciplinary policies 
and procedures applicable to students, faculty or staff.  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
Student Conduct Booklet (see University Policies)  
  
The American University in Cairo                                                       August 10, 2017  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date: April 24, 2017  
  
Last Amended Date: August 10, 2017  
  
Next Review Date: June 10, 2018  
   
 

 
Page 1 
GIFT ACCEPTANCE POLICY 
 
Policy Statement 
 
The American University in Cairo is dedicated to seeking and accepting gifts that support our 
mission as the premier liberal arts institution in Egypt and the region. Gifts allow the University 
to continue to provide world-class education in state-of-the art facilities, conduct ground- 
breaking research and provide financial aid to students. AUC will only accept gifts that support 
and further our mission. This policy ensures both the welfare of the University and the best 
interests of our donors.  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
The following policy and guidelines have been developed for the purpose of providing:  
1. complete and accurate reporting of gifts and pledges  
2. compliance with IRS regulations, Egyptian law and acceptable business practices  
3. guidance for persons involved in gift solicitation, recording and management for the  
American University in Cairo  
The purpose of this policy is to ensure that gifts are:  
1. appropriate to the mission and needs of the University  
2. impose no undue financial burdens on the University  
3. provide appropriate recognition to our donors  
4. if restricted, are written in reasonably broad and flexible terms to maximize their usefulness 
to the University  
5. if restricted, include language that permits the University to apply the gift to a related 
purpose, in the event that the designated purpose is no longer practical, necessary or feasible.  
Who Approved This Policy 
 
Approved by Institutional Advancement Committee of Board of Trustees, October 2015 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
This policy applies to all parts of the American University in Cairo (AUC), including all entities or 
associations under the university’s 501(c)(3) designation such as schools, departments, 
interdisciplinary programs, research programs, centers, institutes, and libraries. This policy will 
be reviewed annually to ensure that it reflects changes in IRS regulations, Egyptian law, 
accounting standards, or other issues as needed and appropriate. (Note: Separate sponsored 
research protocols apply to faculty seeking research contracts and grants 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
 
Page 2 
Contacts 
 
 
Office of Advancement and Communications:  
 
 
Definitions 
 
A gift 
A consideration given for which the donor receives no direct 
benefit and requires nothing in exchange beyond an 
assurance that the intent of the contribution will be honored.  
AUC also receives funding through grants and awards. Grants 
and awards generally require specific deliverables within a 
specified time frame. 
 
 
 
 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
 
 
Preamble  
 
The American University in Cairo is dedicated to seeking and accepting gifts that support our 
mission as the premier liberal arts institution in Egypt and the region. Gifts allow the University 
to continue to provide world-class education in state-of-the art facilities, conduct ground- 
breaking research and provide financial aid to students. AUC will only accept gifts that support 
and further our mission. This policy ensures both the welfare of the University and the best 
interests of our donors.  
 
Introduction  
 
The following policy and guidelines have been developed for the purpose of providing:  
1. complete and accurate reporting of gifts and pledges  
2. compliance with IRS regulations, Egyptian law and acceptable business practices  
3. guidance for persons involved in gift solicitation, recording and management for the  
American University in Cairo  
The purpose of this policy is to ensure that gifts are:  
1. appropriate to the mission and needs of the University  
2. impose no undue financial burdens on the University  
3. provide appropriate recognition to our donors  
4. if restricted, are written in reasonably broad and flexible terms to maximize their usefulness 
to the University  
5. if restricted, include language that permits the University to apply the gift to a related 
purpose, in the event that the designated purpose is no longer practical, necessary or feasible.  
 
Page 3 
This policy applies to all parts of the American University in Cairo (AUC), including all entities 
or associations under the university’s 501(c)(3) designation such as schools, departments, 
interdisciplinary programs, research programs, centers, institutes, and libraries. This policy will 
be reviewed annually to ensure that it reflects changes in IRS regulations, Egyptian law, 
accounting standards, or other issues as needed and appropriate. (Note: Separate sponsored 
research protocols apply to faculty seeking research contracts and grants. 
 
Counsel  
Donors are encouraged to seek their own advisors (lawyers, financial planners, investment 
brokers, etc) prior to making any gift.  
AUC will also seek counsel in the following circumstances:  
- 
to review transactions in which the gift acceptance committee, legal office or members 
of the Board of Trustees believe that the use of counsel is appropriate  
- 
to review gifts of real estate or art  
 
Definition of a Gift  
 
A gift is a consideration given for which the donor receives no direct benefit and requires 
nothing in exchange beyond an assurance that the intent of the contribution will be honored.  
AUC also receives funding through grants and awards. Grants and awards generally require 
specific deliverables within a specified time frame. The Office of Sponsored Programs is 
responsible for all grants and awards from public entities, such as governmental sources and 
public foundation grants, which are not covered under this policy.  
 
Restrictions on Gifts  
 
The American University in Cairo will accept unrestricted gifts and gifts for specific programs 
and purposes, provided that such gifts are consistent with the University’s mission, purposes, 
and identified funding priorities. AUC will not accept gifts that contravene the University’s 
Advertising and Sponsorship Policy. AUC will not accept gifts that are too restrictive in 
purpose. Gifts that are too restrictive are those that violate the terms of the University’s 
charter, gifts that are too difficult to administer, or gifts that are for purposes outside the 
University’s mission. With gifts, donors do not have specific control over University 
expenditures or work performed, and there should be no donor expectation of anything of 
significant value in return. The Gift Acceptance Committee shall make all final decisions on gift 
acceptance.  
 
While welcoming and indeed encouraging free expression of opinion on campus, the American 
University in Cairo does not accept any form of material support, including donations or 
sponsorships in cash, goods or services, from political parties or religious organizations.  
The University also reserves the right to refuse donations and sponsorships from other private, 
business or social entities as deemed appropriate by the University Cabinet. This policy applies 
to all recognized University constituent or affiliate groups, including student organizations, 
alumni clubs, research centers and the like.  
 
 
Page 4 
Authorization  
 
No solicitation for funds may be undertaken by any school, department, center, or individual 
without the approval of the vice president for advancement and communications or his or her 
designee.  
 
No approach outside of approved funding priorities may be made to a donor — including 
individuals, foundations, corporations, or other entities (excluding grant-making entities) — 
without the approval of the president and provost.  
 
Students or faculty seeking sponsorship of activities must submit a list of prospective sponsors 
to the Office of Advancement and Communications for approval prior to any solicitation. 
Qualified sponsorships will be receipted as gifts and must comply with the University’s 
regulations on sponsorships.  
 
No fundraising consultants, individuals, or firms will be hired to work on behalf of AUC or any 
University school, department, center, institute, program, or other University entity without 
the prior approval of the vice president of advancement and communications or his or her 
designee.  
 
Gift records at AUC are confidential. Information regarding donor gift histories, lists of donors, 
and all related materials are disclosed only with the authorization of the vice president of 
advancement and communications or his/her designee.  
 
A Gift Acceptance Committee serves to evaluate specific major gifts ($25,000 or more) and 
interpret the University’s gift acceptance policy. The committee shall consist of the following 
officers of the American University in Cairo:  
- President  
- Provost  
-  Executive Vice President for Finance and Administration  
-  Vice President of Advancement and Communications  
 
Representatives from schools, centers, institutes or other AUC entities will be included as 
appropriate for discussion of gifts for the school, center, program, etc. in question.  
It is the responsibility of all development officers to bring any gift about which there may be 
questions to the attention of the vice president of advancement and communications. 
Examples of such questionable gifts are offers to endow programs or to create new centers 
that are not academic priorities, or to endow scholarships that are overly restrictive. 
Questionable gift proposals may be referred, as needed, to the Gift Acceptance Committee.  
 
Gift Documentation Policies  
 
All gifts to AUC require written documentation before being “counted” toward University 
fundraising goals. For outright gifts or multi-year pledges, documentation will usually be a 
signed and dated pledge agreement. Other acceptable documentation includes deeds or other 
 
Page 5 
forms of conveyance or assignment; insurance policies with conveyance or assignment; 
completed wills or a bequest intention form; and irrevocable trust agreements in which AUC is 
named as beneficiary. Email approval of gifts may also be used as official documentation.  
 
Gift Recording  
 
All gifts, pledges, and bequests to AUC will be recorded in compliance with IRS regulations, 
Egyptian law and acceptable accounting practices.  
 
All donors to AUC are thanked. Thank you letters are prepared for signature by the president, 
vice president of advancement and communications, Annual Fund director or other individual 
primarily as determined by the gift amount. For example, gifts of $1,000 or more to the Annual 
Fund are acknowledged by the president. Gifts below that level will receive a receipt and a 
thank-you letter from the Annual Fund.  
 
Receipts will not be issued for gifts of service, as service is not recognized by the IRS as 
constituting a gift. Recognition for service is determined at the discretion of the Vice President 
of Advancement and Communications who may recommend individuals for particular 
recognition by the president.  
 
Endowed Funds  
The minimum to establish an endowed fund is $50,000. A gift agreement should be completed 
with the University in which the donor pledges to fund the endowed project over an agreed 
upon time frame. Donors to an endowed fund will receive annual reports of the financial 
status of the fund as well as on the activities that the fund has supported. The amounts 
needed for named professorships, scholarships and fellowships are determined by the 
president with final approval from the Board of Trustees.  
 
Before the income from an endowed fund for a restricted purpose can be used, 51 percent of 
the agreed funding level must have been received and invested for one fiscal year. Income 
from endowed funds that are intended to offset current University expenses maybe expended 
as earned.  
 
AUC will invest endowed funds, co-mingled with other endowment funds, to produce income 
as well as capital appreciation. AUC’s current spending policy allows up to 5 percent of the 
rolling three-year average market value of endowment funds calculated as of December 31 of 
each year to be expended annually from current income and capital appreciation. This is 
referred to as the Annual Spend Formula. Should the market value of the fund drop below the 
original amount contributed, spending from the fund will be limited to the current interest and 
dividends income until the contributed value has been restored, in which case the Donor may 
elect to cover the shortfall.  
 
Gift agreements for endowed funds should provide that if funds are not received according to 
the timetable designated by the gift agreement the University shall have the right to 
determine whether the fund will continue, be designated as current use, or be incorporated 
 
Page 6 
into another endowed fund that has a purpose most similar to the donor’s intent. The 
University shall, if practical, consult with the donor when making these determinations.  
 
Endowed Fund Minimum Gift Levels  
Endowment amounts are determined by the Board of Trustees and may be amended by the 
action of the board. Below are the minimum amounts required to establish a specific type of 
endowed fund at AUC:  
- 
Deanship $5 million  
- 
Professorship $2 million  
- 
Distinguished Visiting Lecturer $1 million  
- 
Full Tuition Scholarship $500,000  
- 
Full Tuition Fellowship $500,000  
- 
General Endowed Fund (research, student support, etc) $50,000  
 
The University Funding Opportunities document provides a full listing of approved funding 
options.  
 
Gift Recognition  
 
The advancement and communication office seeks a variety of ways to recognize the 
importance of a gift. These include reports of giving, testimonials and naming opportunities. 
The advancement and communication office maintains a list of opportunities for donors to 
have their name associated with the University by naming a building, space, scholarship, 
fellowship or program.  
 
In naming a building, space, center or program, the gift agreement should use the following 
language: “In recognition for his/her gift, AUC and donor agree to …  
A name will not be used on any physical space or any endowment until 51 percent of the 
agreed contribution has been received.  
 
Naming Opportunities  
 
Naming opportunities at the American University in Cairo may include any new or previously 
unnamed academic program, center, institute, department, physical structure, or part thereof, 
on the New Cairo and Tahrir Square campuses. The list of available naming opportunities 
appears on the University Funding Priorities document, which is approved by the Gift 
Acceptance Committee and the Board of Trustees. This also includes portions of buildings 
(such as classrooms, auditoriums, foyers, wings), collections of buildings, fields, open-air 
courtyards, fountains, terraces, passages, and other outdoor areas and spaces.  
 
Whenever a name is to be given to a space, as described above, either (1) a discussion of a 
proposed name shall take place among the appropriate persons, as designated by the vice 
president of advancement and communications or the Gift Acceptance Committee, or (2) the 
advancement and communications office shall suggest a suitable name.  
 
 
Page 7 
Names for new or existing buildings and structures, academic programs, centers, and institutes 
or departments shall be forwarded to the Board of Trustees for approval.  
 
Once a building or a program has been named, the name shall not be changed unless there are 
unusual or compelling reasons for changing the name and such change is approved by the 
Board of Trustees. The University, in the sole and absolute discretion of its Board of Trustees, 
may exercise this option if a designated name, in its judgment, should bring discredit upon the 
University. Gift agreements should make clear that in the event of such re-naming, the 
University will have no financial responsibility, despite anything that may be stated or implied 
to the contrary.  
 
Strictly honorific naming of spaces or facilities without fundraising will normally not be 
approved.  
 
Exceptions to this naming policy may be made only by the president with approval of the 
Board of Trustees.  
 
The Office of Advancement and Communications is responsible for compiling brief biographies 
of persons after whom buildings have been named and compiling a list of unnamed buildings, 
spaces, centers and programs.  
 
Valuation of Gifts  
 
The value of any gift toward University fundraising goals will be determined by the Council for 
Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) reporting standards. The valuation of a gift for 
tax purposes of the donor is the responsibility of the donor. AUC’s receipts for gifts of cash or 
publicly traded securities are provided to donors to establish the value of a gift for tax 
purposes. In all other cases, it is the responsibility of the donor to secure independent expert 
appraisals to establish tax-deductible values. For recordkeeping purposes, AUC will 
acknowledge receipt of a gift received by the University at its value on the date of the gift.  
 
Pledges  
 
All pledges, with the exception of pledges under $1,000 and those resulting from the AUC 
Annual Fund phonathons, are required to be in writing. The written pledge statement must 
include at minimum the following information:  
The amount of the pledge, clearly specified in language indicating the determination to make 
the gift (e.g. should use words like “intend,” “will” and “shall” rather than “may” or “hope”)  
There must be a clearly defined payment schedule  
The donor must be considered to be financially capable of making the gift  
The pledge statement should not include unacceptable restrictions  
 
In most cases, pledges from AUC Annual Fund phonathons and from other AUC Annual Fund 
solicitations are to be fulfilled within one year. AUC Annual Fund pledges that are not fulfilled 
 
Page 8 
within the fiscal year in which they are due will be written off. AUC accepts multi-year AUC 
Annual Fund pledges.  
 
Restricted pledges of up to $9,999 must be paid within the same fiscal year. Restricted pledges 
between $10,000 and $24,999 may be paid over two fiscal years.  
 
Pledges for gifts of $25,000 or more may be made over a period of not more than five years. In 
cases of very large or unusual gifts, the president may make an exception. Major gift pledges 
($25,000 or more) for which there has been no payment (or the payment has stopped) for 
three consecutive years must be reviewed by the vice president of advancement and 
communications to determine the use of any funds given and how to recognize the gift.  
Pledges to establish endowed funds that are not fulfilled within the agreed upon time period 
must be reviewed by the vice president of advancement and communication in consideration 
of any applicable fund agreements signed by the donor and the University. In the absence of 
such agreement, if the gift total does not reach the specified level and the gift in question does 
not meet the minimum level to endow a fund within five years from the date of commitment, 
the gift may be placed in a fund whose purpose is as close to the donor’s intent as possible.  
In the case of named spaces, if the donor fails to complete the payment within the specified 
time in the gift agreement, the University may at its discretion remove the name.  
 
Types of Gifts  
The following gifts are acceptable:  
1. Cash  
2. Gifts-in Kind  
a. Tangible personal property (gifts-in-kind including supplies, materials and equipment)  
b. Real estate  
c. Remainder interests in property  
d. Oil, gas, and mineral interests  
 
3. Securities  
4. Corporate matching gifts  
5. Bargain sales  
6. Life insurance  
7. Charitable gift annuities  
8. Charitable remainder trusts and pooled income funds  
9. Charitable lead trusts  
10. Retirement plan beneficiary designations  
11. Bequests  
12. Life insurance beneficiary designations  
 
The following criteria govern the acceptance of each gift form:  
1.Cash Payment methods include cash, credit card, check, payroll deduction, bank draft,  
electronic funds transfer, and gifts made online through AUC’s website. Checks must be made 
payable to the American University in Cairo. Gifts of cash will be credited at their full face 
value. Cash gifts are reported the date the cash is received by the Office of Advancement and 
 
Page 9 
Communication in Cairo or New York. Credit card gifts are reported on the date that the credit 
card charges are processed. All gifts of cash shall be forwarded directly to the Office of 
Advancement and Communications with a completed Gift Transmittal Form, available in this 
office. This should also include all original documentation, including envelopes.  
2. Gift-in-Kind  
a. Tangible personal property: The University accepts gifts of tangible property (gifts-in-kind 
including supplies, materials and equipment) as long as they are needed by the University and 
their acquisition and use do not incur unreasonable cost. Obtaining an appraisal and related 
expenses is the responsibility of the donor. All gifts of tangible personal property must be 
examined in light of the following criteria:  
 
Does the property help to fulfill the mission of the American University in Cairo?  
Is the property marketable?  
Are there any undue restrictions on the use, display or sale of the property?  
Are there any carrying costs for the property?  
 
Any restrictions sought by the donor on the sale, maintenance, administration, or display of 
items contributed is subject to review by the Gift Acceptance Committee and the appropriate 
department heads, including the executive vice president for finance administration for any 
items requiring the use of University facilities or space on campus. The Gift Acceptance 
Committee shall make the final determination on the acceptance of tangible property gifts. 
The University reserves the right to dispose of tangible assets at any time unless otherwise 
agreed to with the donor.  
 
Valuation Guidelines  
o University personnel with particular expertise in the personal property may provide informal 
assistance (including suggesting an appraisal) to the donor in valuing an individual gift or group 
of gifts with an apparent value of less than $5,000 but, again, the donor is ultimately 
responsible for substantiating the actual valuation.  
o Personal property gifts with a value of $5,000 or more will require an appraisal from a 
qualified third party appraiser for gift recording valuation purposes.  
o The IRS requires donors to obtain an appraisal to substantiate their charitable tax deduction 
for gifts valued at $5,000 or more. The cost of the appraisal will be the responsibility of the 
donor.  
o In cases where the donor is not claiming a tax deduction and thus isn’t required to obtain an 
appraisal, documentation should be submitted with the gift form to support the valuation 
placed on the gift.  
 
b. Real estate: Gifts of real estate may include developed property, undeveloped property, or 
gifts subject to a prior life interest. The fair market value of the property must be determined 
by independent appraisal obtained by the donor and may be appraised separately by the 
University. In addition, the gift must be approved by the Gift Acceptance Committee and by 
AUC’s legal counsel. Criteria for acceptance of the property shall include:  
 
o Is the property useful for the purposes of the University?  
 
Page 10 
o Does the property have a clear and marketable title?  
o Are there any restrictions, reservations, easements, or other limitations associated with the 
property?  
o Are there carrying costs, which may include insurance, property taxes, mortgages, or notes, 
etc. associated with the property?  
o Does the initial inspection reflect that the property suffers no environmental damage?  
 
The due diligence procedures for accepting gifts of real property are the responsibility of the 
Gift Acceptance Committee. The executive vice president for finance administration is 
responsible for recommending acceptance of gifts of real property to the president. Donors 
will be requested to complete a due diligence form.  
 
c. Remainder interests in property: AUC may accept a remainder interest in a personal 
residence, farm, or vacation property subject to the provisions of paragraph (b), above. The 
donor or other occupants may continue to occupy the real property for the duration of the 
stated life. At the death of the donor, AUC may use the property or reduce it to cash. Where 
AUC receives a gift of a remainder interest, expenses for maintenance, real estate taxes, and 
any property indebtedness are to be paid by the donor or primary beneficiary.  
 
d. Oil, gas, and mineral interests: AUC may accept oil and gas property interests, when 
appropriate. These gifts must be approved by the Gift Acceptance Committee prior to 
acceptance. Criteria for acceptance of the property shall include:  
 
o Gifts of surface rights should have a value of $20,000 or greater.  
o Gifts of oil, gas, and mineral interests should generate at least $3,000 per year in royalties or 
other income (as determined by the average of the three years prior to the gift).  
o The property should not have extended liabilities or other considerations that make receipt 
of the gift inappropriate.  
o A working interest is rarely accepted. A working interest may only be accepted when there is 
a plan to minimize potential liability and tax consequences.  
o The property should undergo an environmental review to ensure that AUC has no current or 
potential exposure to environmental liability.  
 
3. Securities: AUC may accept both publicly traded securities and closely held securities.  
Publicly traded securities: AUC will accept marketable securities as outright gifts or payments 
toward pledges. Marketable securities may be transferred to an AUC account maintained at 
one or more brokerage firms or delivered physically with the transferor’s signature or stock 
power attached. As a general rule, all marketable securities shall be sold upon receipt unless 
otherwise directed by the University’s investment counselor.. These gifts will be valued at the 
mean market value on the date of the gift, in accordance with IRS regulations.  
Closely held securities: Closely held securities, which include not only debt and equity 
positions in non-publicly traded companies but also interests in LLPs and LLCs or other 
ownership forms, may be accepted subject to the approval of the Gift Acceptance Committee. 
However, gifts must be reviewed prior to acceptance to determine that:  
 
Page 11 
There are no restrictions on the security that would prevent AUC from ultimately converting 
those assets to cash, and there is a reasonable prospect that the securities will be saleable 
within a reasonable timeframe.  
The security does not create any obligation on the University for capital calls or other 
liabilities, contingent or otherwise.  
The security will not generate any undesirable tax consequences for the University.  
 
If potential problems arise on initial review of the security, further review and 
recommendation by an outside professional may be sought before making a final decision on 
acceptance of the gift. The final determination on the acceptance of closely held securities 
shall be made by the Gift Acceptance Committee and legal counsel when necessary.  
Decisions regarding the selling of non-marketable securities will be made in consultation in 
writing with the executive vice president for finance administration and the chairman of the 
Investment Committee of the Board of Trustees.  
 
4. Corporate matching gifts: Gifts received in cash from organizations or corporations to 
match a gift of cash or securities by individuals associated with that organization will be 
credited to the individual’s gift record (soft credit) and allocated to the same purpose as the 
donor’s gift.  
 
5. Bargain sales: AUC may enter into a bargain sale arrangement in instances in which the 
bargain sale furthers the mission and purposes of the University. All bargain sales must be 
reviewed and recommended by the Gift Acceptance Committee and approved by the Board of 
Trustees. Factors used in determining the appropriateness of the transaction include:  
- 
The University must obtain an independent appraisal substantiating the value of the 
property. If the University assumes debt with the property, the debt ratio must be less 
than 50% of the appraised market value.  
- 
The University must determine that it will use the property, or that there is a market 
for sale of the property, allowing sale within 12 months of receipt.  
- 
The University must calculate the costs to safeguard, insure, and expense the property 
(including property tax, if applicable) during the holding period.  
 
6. Life insurance: Before an insurance policy can be recorded as a gift, the policy must be 
gifted to the University and AUC must be named as both beneficiary and irrevocable owner of 
the policy. The gift is valued at its interpolated terminal reserve value, or cash surrender  
value, upon receipt. If the donor contributes future premium payments, AUC will include the  
entire amount of the additional premium payment as a gift in the year that it is made.  
Donor must provide documentation in the will.  
Donor MUST pay the premiums for the policy to the University who will then pay the vendor, 
which provides extra tax benefit to the donor.  
Term policies are not accepted as gifts.  
 
If the donor does not elect to continue to make gifts to cover premium payments on the life 
insurance policy, AUC may,  
Continue to pay the premiums  
 
Page 12 
Convert the policy to paid up insurance  
Surrender the policy for its current cash value  
 
7. Charitable gift annuities: AUC may offer charitable gift annuities. The minimum gift for 
funding is $10,000. The minimum age for life income beneficiaries of a gift annuity shall be  
55. Where a deferred gift annuity is offered, the minimum age for life income beneficiaries 
shall be 45. No more than two life income beneficiaries will be permitted for any gift annuity. 
Annuity payments may be made on a quarterly, semi-annual, or annual schedule.  
Donor must provide documentation in his or her will. AUC will not accept real estate, tangible 
personal property, or any illiquid asset in exchange for current charitable gift annuities. AUC 
may accept real estate, tangible personal property, or other illiquid assets for deferred gift 
annuities so long as there is at least a five year period before the commencement of the 
annuity payment date, the value of the property is reasonably certain, and the Gift Acceptance 
Committee approves the arrangement.  
Funds contributed in exchange for a gift annuity shall be set aside and invested during the 
term of the annuity payments. Once those payments have terminated, the funds representing 
the remaining principal contributed in exchange for the gift annuity shall be transferred to 
AUC’s general endowment, or to such specific fund as designated by the donor.  
8. Charitable remainder trusts and pooled income funds: AUC may accept designation as a 
remainder beneficiary of a charitable remainder trust with the approval of the Gift Acceptance 
Committee. Gifts made to establish charitable remainder trusts where the remainder is not 
subject to change or revocation and gifts made to pooled income funds should be credited as 
deferred gifts at both the discounted present value of the remainder interest allowable as a 
deduction by the IRS and at fair market value. AUC will not accept appointment as the trustee 
of a charitable remainder trust.  
9. Charitable lead trusts: AUC may accept designation as income beneficiary of a charitable 
lead trust. AUC will not accept appointment as trustee of a charitable lead trust. For lead trusts 
that extend beyond five years, amounts beyond the first five years may be valued at both the 
remaining face value (for donor recognition) and at the discounted present value of the 
remaining income stream (to permit cash flow projections). For lead trusts that extend five 
years or less, the face value may be reported.  
10. Retirement plan beneficiary designations: Such designations will not be recorded as gifts 
to AUC until such time as the gift is irrevocable. When the gift is irrevocable but is not due until 
a future date, the present value of that gift may be recorded at the time the gift is irrevocable.  
11. Bequests: Bequests will not be recorded as gifts to AUC until such time as the gift is 
irrevocable. When the gift is irrevocable but is not due until a future date, the present value of 
that gift may be recorded at the time the gift is irrevocable. Wherever possible, unrestricted 
gifts through estates and trusts will be invested with the University’s endowment. For donors 
of age 80 or more, intended bequests will be valued and recognized at full value. Donors of 
less than 80 years of age will be recognized for the full amount of the gift; however, these will 
be valued according to the donor’s actuarial life expectancy. Donor must provide 
documentation in the will.  
12. Life insurance beneficiary designations: These designations will not be recorded as gifts to 
the University until such time as the gift is irrevocable. When the gift is irrevocable but is not 
 
Page 13 
due until a future date, the present value of that gift may be recorded at the time the gift is 
irrevocable. In the case of all gift agreements, the donor may include clauses concerning:  
Giving appropriate publicity to a gift, in publications, news releases, etc 
Informing the donor of the outcome of a selection or appointment process  
Providing a periodic report of activity to the donor  
Stipulating that a gift not replace current university support for a program, position, or other 
purpose.  
 
Annual Review  
The Gift Acceptance Committee should review this policy annually to determine if any 
amendments are necessary to address changes or new situations. The committee will bring 
new amendments before the Board of Trustees for their approval. 
Forms/Instructions  
 
 
Related Information  
 
 
Appendices (optional) 
 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
 

The American University in Cairo                                                         DRAFT – Dec. 21, 2016 
 
Page 1 
HOSPITALITY 
 
Policy Statement 
AUC does not provide its employees with free meals or drinks, neither does it allow its budget to 
be charged for costs of flowers for office embellishment. However, this policy controls the 
annual hospitality/social Function budget provided to AUC community for business related 
activities.  
    Hospitality expenses may be incurred for drinks and food served to students participating in 
formal meetings or activities with departmental representatives. 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
This policy aims at defining the hospitality and social function boundaries. 
Who Approved This Policy 
EVP. Brian MacDougall 
EVP for Administration & Finance. 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
AUC Community. 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
http://schools.aucegypt.edu/offices/controller/Documents/Hospitality%20policy1.pdf  
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Accounts Payable Director. 
 
Responsible University Office: Office of the Controller 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for [     ] policy, you may:  
 
1. Call [ Accounts Payable Section – Controller’s Office] at [ext # 2336], or  
 
2. Send an e-mail to Hesham_r@aucegypt.edu  
 
Definitions 
 
Term (alphabetical order) 
Definition as it relates to this policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                         DRAFT – Dec. 21, 2016 
 
Page 2 
Policy/Procedures 
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                         DRAFT – Dec. 21, 2016 
 
Page 3 
 
 
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                         DRAFT – Dec. 21, 2016 
 
Page 4 
Forms/Instructions  
 
List applicable forms or other university and external documents that provide helpful, relevant 
information.  Include where these documents can be located. 
 
Related Information  
 
List related university policy documents or cross-references and where they can be located. 
 
Appendices (optional) 
 
Appendices are used for informational material that is helpful in understanding the policy, but 
not directly related to the implementation of the policy, i.e., not procedures.  Content may 
include graphics or text. 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: July 1, 2010 
 
Last Amended Date: Dec. 21, 2016 
 
Next Review Date: Month, Day, Year 
 

 
Amendments approved on October 30, 2022 
 
Policy Title 
HR Operations Policy for Externally Funded Staff 
Responsible University Office   
Human Resources Office 
Policy Owner  
Senior AVP for Human Resources 
Pertinent Dates  
This is an amendment to the HR Operations Policy for 
Externally Funded Staff dated 2017 
Amended on October 30, 2022 
 
 
I. 
SCOPE OF POLICY 
 
 
a. This is an update to the HR Operations Policy for Externally Funded Staff dated 2017. The policy is 
revised with the aim of handling challenges faced to recruit & retain staff on externally funded 
contracts as well as to provide the flexibility needed to meet sponsors’ requirements. The amendment 
covers the allowance for eligible externally funded staff. 
 
b. Under the current policy, externally funded staff are entitled to an allowance worth 25% of their 
monthly pay as a compensation for the optional benefits unavailable to them due to lack of grant 
funding and due to special working conditions, such as working in several Egyptian governorates. 
 
c. The amendment states that “the Externally funded staff may be offered a monthly allowance up to 
50% of gross monthly salary subject to budget availability and prior written approval of the PI. The PI 
is responsible to seek the sponsor approval if deemed necessary. All other recruitment, employment & 
compensation procedures will follow the applicable university policies & procedures as well as the 
current externally funded policy dated 2017”. 
 
II. 
DEFINITIONS 
 
 
N/A 
 
III. 
POLICY STATEMENT 
 
 
This policy amendment covers the allowance offered for externally funded staff. This applies to all sponsored 
agreements/grants. All PIs/Directors should follow this policy. 
 
IV. 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
 
Approvals: Area Heads/Deans, Principal Investigators, Administrative Directors 
Alignment: Office of Sponsored Programs 
Budget Availability: Grant Accounting Office and/or Budget Office as per authorization matrix 
 
 
 
Amendments approved on October 30, 2022 
 
V. 
POLICY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES 
 
 
Externally funded staff may be offered a monthly allowance of up to 50% of gross salary subject to budget 
availability and prior written approval of the PI. The PI is responsible to seek the sponsor approval if 
deemed necessary. All other recruitment, employment & compensation procedures will follow the applicable 
university policies & procedures as well as the current externally funded staff policy. 
 
 
VI. 
FORMS/INSTRUCTIONS (if applicable) 
 
 
N/A 
 
VII. 
APPENDICES  
 
 
2017 HR Operations Policy for Externally Funded Staff Policy 
 
 
VIII. 
CONTACT INFORMATION 
 
 
Director, HR Business Partner – Grants at rmezeini@aucegypt.edu ext. 2427_____________________. 

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Identity and Access Management Policy • Page 1 of 4  
October 2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: Identity and Access Management Policy – October 2022  
  
Approval date: February 2018  
  
Purpose of document: This document addresses the management of permissions for 
accessing AUC data and resources.  
  
Office/department responsible: Office of Information Security  
  
Approved by: Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
  
Document classification level: PUBLIC  
  
Document accessible: [ [https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]]  
  
Related documents/see also: [ AUC Data Governance Policy, Information Security Policy,  
Electronic Mail Email Policy, Acceptable Use Policy, Peer to Peer Sharing Policy]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
Identity and Access Management Policy  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
AUC data and resources must be secured by strong identity management processes and 
procedures. All users who use or access AUC data or resources must have a unique identifier 
across all systems, and their access permissions, granting, and revoking are adequately 
managed.  
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
      Ensure the community is fully aware of the requisite security needed to protect a digital 
asset and access to AUC assets and information resources.  
  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
Wessam Maher, Principal Campus Information Security Officer  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Identity and Access Management Policy • Page 2 of 4  
  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
Entire AUC community  
  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk Officer 
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security. 
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an e-mail to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
1. Every user or person who deals with AUC systems, data, assets, and digital resources must 
have a single, digital, and unified identity.  
2. Identities should be unique for every person, using shared identity should be approved and 
documented by management and information security  
3. Redundant identities should be regularly identified and rectified  
4. Any identity owner who leaves AUC or ends his/her relationship with AUC should have 
his/her access terminated and identity disabled or deleted.  
5. All systems and digital assets access should be identified or traced automatically by the 
unified identity.  
6. Identity provisioning and de-provisioning actions should be managed by strict processes 
and workflows.  
7. Identity access privilege should be tied with the user relationship with AUC and in specific 
with regard to the role and accountabilities assigned.  
8. Identity access privilege review and adjustment should be triggered whenever the person's 
status is affected, like moving internally inside AUC, getting promoted, resigning, getting 
fired, getting involved in an investigation, being accused of a violation, going on a 
paid/unpaid leave…etc.  
9. Any change in identity record details or metadata should be managed by strict processes 
and shouldn't affect the integrity of the record. These changes must be aligned with 
relevant processes like password change and approval workflow processes…etc.  
10. Access control limits and boundaries authorizations are established, documented, and 
reviewed properly.   
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Identity and Access Management Policy • Page 3 of 4  
11. Access limits should be approved by relevant stakeholders, data owners, as well as 
information security, depending on the criticality of the case.  
12. Access authorization requests and granting actions should be formalized and documented  
13. Access limits should be based on the need to know, need to use, and least privilege 
principles and designed to accommodate AUC applications/systems. The general access 
rule is "Everything is generally forbidden unless expressly permitted."  
14. Purchasing decisions of new systems and applications must take into consideration the 
integration needs both technically and from a business perspective. Implementation of 
new systems and applications must include integration with the unified identity 
management solutions and related processes  
15. Segregation of duties should be established between access request, access authorization, 
and access administration processes  
16. Semi-annual periodic access review should be maintained and approved by the access 
granting stakeholders.  
17. The ability to disable access to certain identity need to be managed adequately and swiftly, 
considering it a time-sensitive action.  
18. IT and Information Security are data custodians; accordingly, they can't grant access to 
any identity. Proper data trustee, data domain trustee, and other delegated roles are the 
authorized parties to grant and revoke access to data and systems.  
19. Revoking the access can be done by IT and Information Security in special cases to protect 
AUC information and digital assets whenever appropriate.  
20. Application and system function and design capabilities, as well as the processed 
information criticality level, should be considered while designing its identity and access 
management processes and workflows  
21. All relevant actions for provisioning, de-provisioning, access change…etc. should be 
documents, and its relevant logs should be maintained adequately  
22. Access level review and certification should be done at least twice per year.  
23. Records and logs of all granting and revoking actions should be maintained at all times in 
centralized repositories.  
24. All old and new AUC solutions and systems, whether hosted in AUC or on a cloud, should 
be managed by AUC authorized identity management   
25. Access rights should not be granted until the authorization process is complete.  
  
  
Privileged Identity and Access Management  
  
AUC has privileged administrators who have access to the backbone of AUC systems and 
digital services/accounts; these digital access keys should be managed and monitored 
adequately to protect AUC ultimately.  
  
1. Privileged access should be managed properly, considering its criticality   
2. Privileged access should include all privileged access types on all services, systems, and 
applications. This includes cloud, social media, and outsourced systems.  
3. Access rights should not be granted until the authorization process is complete  
4. Privileged access rights should be assigned to a user ID different from those used for 
regular business activities. Regular business activities should not be performed from a 
privileged ID  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Identity and Access Management Policy • Page 4 of 4  
5. Specific procedures should be established and maintained in order to avoid the 
unauthorized use of generic administration user IDs according to systems' configuration 
capabilities  
6. For generic administration user IDs, the confidentiality of secret authentication 
information should be maintained when shared (e.g., changing passwords frequently and 
as soon as possible when a privileged user leaves or changes job, communicating them 
among privileged users with appropriate mechanisms).  
7. The competencies of users with privileged access rights should be reviewed regularly in 
order to verify if they are in line with their duties.  
8. Requirements for expiry of privileged access rights should be defined  
9. An authorization process and a record of all privileges allocated should be maintained.  
10. Access history and commands action logs should be maintained for reference, 
investigations, and auditing needs.  
11. Bypassing privileged access management solutions is forbidden at all times; exceptions 
should be approved by Information Security.  
12. All old and new AUC solutions and systems, whether hosted in AUC or on a cloud, should 
be managed by AUC authorized privilege identity management   
13. All AUC systems and digital services should be managed by AUC-defined privilege 
management control; new systems should be designed to comply from day one before 
going live.  
14. All social media, cloud, and outsourced administrative systems should be accessed and 
managed through AUC-defined privilege management controls.  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
AUC Data Governance Policy   
Information Security Policy  
Electronic Mail Email Policy  
Acceptable Use Policy  
Peer to Peer Sharing Policy  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
February 2018  
Last Amended Date:  February 2018  
Last Review Date:  
October 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October 2025  

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Information Security Policy • Page 1 of 7  
October 2022 
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: [Information Security Policy – October 2022]  
  
Approval date: [May 2017]  
  
Purpose of document: [ To define AUC’s information security program main pillars and 
components]  
  
Office/department responsible: [ Office of Information Security]  
Approved by: [ Mr. Brian MacDougall - Executive VP for Administration & Finance  
Ms. Hanan Abdel Meguid - Vice President for Digital Innovation  
Ms. Nagwa Nicola – Chief Technology Officer]  
  
Document classification level: [PUBLIC]  
  
Document accessible: [ www.aucegpyt.edu/xxx/xxx ]  
  
Related documents/see also: [ Acceptable Use Policy, Email Policy, Servers Policy, 
Password Policy, Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Policy ]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
Information Security Policy  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
Information Security is one of the AUC organization’s control areas, with responsibility for 
ensuring that our information assets are adequately protected. The American University in 
Cairo (AUC) Information Security Policy is a critical component of our security framework.  
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  
Since AUC is committed to providing excellence in its services, information 
security/cybersecurity is an important pillar among the whole organization's activities that 
need to be defined, prioritized, and executed as per the business needs. AUC is committed to 
complying and covering all requirements demanded by US Federal institutions, International 
standards like ISO 27001, and US and Egyptian laws and regulations. AUC senior 
administration is committed to supporting this policy and other related ones to deliver the 
adequate information security level to all stakeholders  
  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Information Security Policy • Page 2 of 7  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Mr. Brian MacDougall - Executive VP for Administration & Finance  
Ms. Hanan Abdel Meguid - Vice President for Digital Innovation  
Ms. Nagwa Nicola – Chief Technology Officer  
  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
All AUC community in general  
In specific, AUC community members involved in sponsoring, developing, designing, 
approving, supporting, implementing, administrating, operating, or otherwise delivering 
Information related/IT solutions must read and comply with this document.  
Management has specific responsibility for ensuring that relevant staff are aware of and 
comply with this material.  
AUC students, faculty, staff, contractors, partners, and any person who interacts with AUC 
information are targeted by this policy  
The reader is also subject to Acceptable Use Policy and other developed AUC policies 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Information Security Policy • Page 3 of 7  
  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
Please list the location on the university’s website where this policy is located.   
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk 
Officer  
  
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security. 
  
If you have any questions on the policy or procedures, you may send an e-mail to 
infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
Definitions  
 
  
None  
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
1 Information security framework  
  
Information Security is a specialist area within the university's operational risk management. 
The head of Information Security “Chief Information Security and Risk Officer” is 
responsible for formulating strategy, policies, and standards and for maintaining a consistent 
and effective information security framework across AUC.   
  
2 Information Security Office  
  
The primary role of the Information Security office is to set the AUC’s agenda for 
Information Security, its communication, and implementation as well. It ensures that the 
information security processes are implemented in a consistent, risk-based manner across 
AUC. These activities are concerned with delivering an optimum Governance, Risk, and 
Compliance state within the Information Security scope. A framework/program for these 
activities is prepared by Information Security head, including policies, principles, standards, 
technical architecture, and methodologies that must be used throughout AUC.   
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
Information Security Policy • Page 4 of 7  
  
Below are some main components of the Information Security strategy and program: -  
  
2.1 Risk Assessment  
  
Information Security requirements must be identified through a methodical assessment of 
risks. Expenditure on controls needs to be balanced against the business harm/cost likely to 
result in case the risk has been exploited. Risk analysis considers:  
a) Identifying mission-critical information systems and repositories  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Information Security Policy • Page 5 of 7  
b) The business harm is likely to result, taking into account the potential consequences of a 
loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the information and other assets; 
whether tangible or non-tangible  
c) The realistic likelihood of such a failure occurring in the light of prevailing threats and 
vulnerabilities and the controls currently implemented.   
d) Assessing the risks posed by business partners, cloud services adoptions, and 
integrations.  
e) Determining legal and compliance implications and contingent liability concerns.  
f) Ensuring Information solutions are hardened and patched in accordance with industry 
best practices.  
  
According to the university's risk appetite, the identified risks are handled through one of the 
following actions: - Risk Acceptance, Risk Avoidance, Risk Limitation, or Risk Transfer.  
  
AUC will ensure to perform Information Security risk assessments in periodic and ad hoc 
ways, whether done by internal or external entities, in order to manage Information Security 
priorities and activities. Also, AUC will be taking into consideration the continuously 
evolving threats mindset plus confirming that proper controls are in place as well as taking 
into consideration any new business requirements and priorities.  
  
  
2.2 Digital Forensics Investigations  
  
The Information Security Office is responsible for conducting Information security 
investigations and digital forensics activities with regard to any AUC’s digital nature 
subjects. Also, the office is responsible for collecting and validating any digital 
information/logs and acts as a central point of contact with any investigation parties, 
whether internally or externally.  
  
Accordingly, the Information Security office has the right to request data, metadata, 
technical logs, and history input from AUC system’s owners and administrators within the 
investigation’s scope and through documented communication.  
  
2.3 Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plans  
  
As business continuity and disaster recovery activities are risk-based activities, the 
Information Security Office is responsible for leading these activities with regards to the 
Information and systems sides through planning, data collection, formulating business 
impact analysis, validating plans’ components,…etc.  
  
2.4 information security awareness program  
  
AUC’s management, faculty, and staff are the main targets for the Information Security 
awareness program in order to cover all threats related to human behaviors that can affect 
AUC assets. On the other hand, students’ awareness is important, as well as they are the end 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Information Security Policy • Page 6 of 7  
customers who use AUC systems. Information Security office is responsible for planning 
and managing all activities related to this subject  
  
2.5 Digital solutions acquisition assessment  
  
Overseeing and evaluating digital solutions and service providers from Information 
Security’s perspective is an essential task in order to ensure that proper safeguards are in 
place to protect AUC’s valuable assets.  
  
2.6 Penetration testing   
  
Penetration testing is an essential activity for detecting vulnerabilities in the system and for 
checking how effective the controls are in preventing any breaches. Information Security 
office is responsible for managing these activities, whether the testing is done through 
internal resources or an external entity.  
Caution must be exercised while running these activities in order to safeguard AUC 
resources from crashing, non-controlled data exposure, or unplanned downtime. 
All these activities must be done with a pre-defined and aligned scope.  
  
2.7 Vulnerability Management  
  
Vulnerability/patch management is an ongoing risk-based task that is led by Information 
Security to ensure that all systems are patched and updated against security threats. The 
actual implementation of patching is done by the respective operations teams.  
  
2.8 Continuous Monitoring Activities  
  
The Information Security Office is responsible for establishing a business-accepted 
Information Security Operation Center (SOC) that will monitor, respond to, and report any 
security violation or suspicious behavior. Accordingly, all needed feeds and data logs from 
AUC systems need to be accessible in order to provide the proper visibility and, 
accordingly, better detection and protection of AUC’s assets.  
  
2.9 Design validation  
  
Information Security office is responsible for assessing Information systems design like 
network systems, software systems, cloud solutions, hardware security adequacy, …etc. in 
order to ensure that security requirements and constraints are implemented on the ground. 
Read procedures, hardening guides, and checklists are to be generated for reoccurring 
assessments.  
  
2.10 Information Lifecycle  
  
Information Security office evaluates and enforces security controls and design restrictions 
towards the information lifecycle and its related systems, whether regarding the Information 
processing, storage, classification, disposal, transmission, …etc.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
October 2022  
  
Information Security Policy • Page 7 of 7  
  
3 Continuous Improvement  
  
AUC will ensure to evaluate the output of all the above components in order to adjust the 
Information Security program adequately and continuously.  
   
 
Forms/Instructions   
 
  
List applicable forms or other university and external documents that provide helpful, 
relevant information. Include where these documents can be located.  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
List related university policy documents or cross-references and where they can be located.  
  
 
Appendices (optional)  
 
  
Appendices are used for informational material that is helpful in understanding the policy 
but not directly related to the implementation of the policy, i.e., not procedures. Content 
may include graphics or text.  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
May 2017  
Last Review Date:  
October 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October 2025  

Integrated Communication Device Policy  - Page 1 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrated Communication Device Policy 
 
Policy Statement 
 
This policy addresses all communication devices given that the division between ‘phones’ and 
‘computers’ is becoming increasingly vague and because a comprehensive policy is needed to fully 
address the University’s multifaceted communication needs. The devices covered in this policy 
include desktops, laptops, tablets, smart phones, as well as conventional cell phones.  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
The below policy provides rules and regulations for obtaining communication devices and services. 
Departments and offices may establish more restrictive device procedures and policies. 
Who Approved This Policy 
 
Executive VP for Administration & Finance  
 
Mr. Brian MacDougall 
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 December 2013 
 
 
Chief Technology Officer 
 
 
 
 
Ms. Nagwa Nicola 
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 December 2013 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
This policy pertains to all University employees who use electronic communication devices for 
work purposes. This includes those who have University-issued devices and those who receive 
compensation for professional use of personally-owned devices. 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
https://documents.aucegypt.edu/docs/about_Policies/Integrated%20Communication%20Devi
ce%20Policy.pdf 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: TBD, Chief Technology Officer 
 
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Technology  
 
Integrated Communication Device Policy  - Page 2 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure for the Communication Device policy, you 
may:  
 
1. Call at Ext. 3525, or  
2. Send an e-mail to cto@aucegypt.edu  
 
Definitions 
 
Term (alphabetical order) 
Definition as it relates to this policy 
Basic Phones 
Telephones that usually have texting and a few other simple 
features. 
Device 
Any 
electronic 
communication 
device. 
This 
includes 
cellphones, smartphones, tablets, computers, and desktops. 
Regular Smart Phones 
Telephones that usually have texting, Internet connectivity, the 
ability to read emails and other features such as a camera. 
Upscale Smart Phone 
Telephones that usually have texting, Internet connectivity, the 
ability to read emails and a screen large enough to view 
attached documents, the possibility to remotely access 
systems and other features such as a video camera. 
 
 
 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
1 - General Device Holder Restrictions 
Mobile devices other than laptops are generally restricted to key positions where it is important to be able to 
reach the individual and for the individual to be able to reach his/her office at any time. Apart from senior 
executives, these devices can also be supplied to employees whose jobs require them to be extensively on the 
move and contactable at all times. More specific guidelines are outlined in sections 1.1 and 1.2. 
 
1.1 - Telephone Device Classifications 
Employees will be assigned different mobile telephonic devices depending on a tier classification. The University 
recognizes these devices as falling into three categories: 
Tier 1: “Upscale Smart Phones”**  
These devices usually have texting, Internet connectivity, a large screen & video cameras.  
Tier 2: “Regular Smart Phones” * 
These devices usually have texting, Internet connectivity, and photo cameras.  
Tier 3: “Basic Phones” † 
These devices usually have texting and a few other simple features. 
                                                 
* In all phones, minimal storage is selected since the purpose of this device is not to store data. 
 
Selection of devices that are not tied to a certain mobile service provider is only justifiable if the user travels a lot 
and replaces the SIM with another SIM card of the country he is going to.  In this case, AUC will not pay for data 
roaming expenses on the original SIM card 
 
 
Integrated Communication Device Policy  - Page 3 
 
1.2 - Telephone Device Eligibility 
Employees will be eligible for different levels of telephone devices depending solely on their critical need and 
not their seniority or any other factor. For an employee to receive a mobile device, the relevant department 
head must indicate that 1) there is a critical need for the employee to have a University-provided phone, 2) that 
using a personal device and line is too burdensome or otherwise inappropriate, and 3) that the employee 
requires a certain device and not a more economical substitute - either on the same tier or a lower one. 
 
Employees can take custody of different devices depending on their critical need and area head approval: 
 
Tier 1: The department head recognizes that the employee requires mobile high speed Internet 
connectivity, high-level processing power, the ability to use applications, and the ability to record video 
and that using a personal device is overly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate. 
 
Tier 2: The department head recognizes that the employee requires occasional Internet connectivity, 
mid-level processing power, and the ability to take photos and that using a personal device is overly 
burdensome or otherwise inappropriate. 
 
Tier 3: The department head recognizes that the employee requires basic talk and text capabilities and 
that using a personal device is overly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate. 
 
1.3 - Non-Telephone Device Limitations 
Each employee shall be limited to one ‘computing package’ in addition to their University-provided mobile 
phone. This should not be taken to mean that each employee is entitled to one computing package but that 
each employee may possess a maximum of one computing package. It is up to the department head to assess 
and communicate the computational needs of their employees. The computing packages available to employees 
are: 
1. Tablet device such as an iPad 
2. Laptop with docking station 
3. Desktop computer 
Any ‘extra’ non-phone device must be acquired at the cost center level and shared collectively and should not 
be used exclusively by one person. Each cost center must create a catalogue of these devices for all members 
of the cost center to see.  This is meant to prevent devices from being used exclusively by one person or having 
the device ‘lost’ within the organization. Ideally, this list should be maintained by the relevant Administrative 
Assistant. 
 
1.4 - Personally Owned Devices Used for Work 
It is permissible for individuals to use their personal devices for professional purposes if they feel the need to 
do so. Those who use personal devices for work must be aware that: 
 
1. Employees are responsible for ensuring that proprietary University information is protected.  
2. In the case of personal mobile devices with personal lines, the University will not purchase voice and 
data services and will instead provide partial monetary compensation for any services, depending on the 
department head approval. This procedure is outlined in section 7.2.  
3. Devices will remain in the custody of the purchaser and are not University property. 
 
1.5 - Current Device Holders 
Employees who currently have devices that exceed their level of need as outlined here may keep their devices 
for the time being. However, the University will not supply a similar replacement for those devices. All 
replacements will be done according to sections 1.2 and 1.3. 
 
Integrated Communication Device Policy  - Page 4 
 
2 - Authorization for Supply of Electronic Communication Devices 
Allocating a mobile phone to an employee at University expense requires the approval of the related Area Head 
and approval for the model will depend on IT assessment.  
 
3 - General Guidelines Purchasing and Procurement  
Equipment and service procurement must adhere to the following guidelines: 
1. Mobile telephones, smart phones must be purchased through the Supply Chain Management Office. 
Purchasing a new device when a similar one is available internally is a policy violation and can result in 
disciplinary action. 
2. The lines required to operate these devices must be purchased through the Information Technology 
campus telephone services office. SCM and IT telephone service offices are responsible for obtaining 
competitive prices and service contracts for these services. The associated charges will then be billed 
directly to the departments’ and offices’ accounts. 
3. Direct purchase of services or equipment by a department is prohibited. Departments and offices are 
responsible for establishing a pre-approval process for both university provided equipment and 
allowances. This process must include approval by the Area Heads or their designee. 
Phones purchased with points or part of a package will oftentimes come with extra devices and services such 
as USB mobile internet sticks and services. These devices cannot be retained by the employee unless approved 
through regular channels. The extra items should otherwise be released into the custody of the Personal 
Inventory and Warehouse Control Office.  
 
3.1 - Procedures for Purchasing New Devices 
The following procedures are to be followed when purchasing new devices: 
 
1.  With regard to computing related equipment, e.g. PCs, laptops, printers, etc. the IT assessment 
procedure will be followed. 
2. With regard to mobile devices, there are currently two options: 
2.1 
Redeemable mobile points: 
- 
Once the need is identified for a mobile device and approval from the area head secured, the 
approval should be forwarded to the Chief Technology Officer.   
- 
Once approval is obtained, the AUC Telecom representative is informed and will check availability 
of devices from the mobile service providers. 
- 
The AUC Telecom representative will obtain the requested device(s) and deliver it to the Office 
of Information Technology. 
- 
As the mobile device is considered an AUC asset, the recording thereof will be facilitated by the 
Manager, Administration and Planning in co-operation with the Budget office and the 
Controller’s office. 
- 
Once the device is recorded, it will be sent to the requester and it is the requester’s responsibility 
to ensure that all needed documentation (e.g. personal custody form) is completed and 
submitted in accordance with SCM procedures. 
2.2 
Purchasing a device via purchase requisition: 
- 
In the event that no mobile points are available, the requester will be informed accordingly. 
- 
He/she will need to follow the regular procedure with regard to acquisition of a low value capital 
asset from the cost center. 
Integrated Communication Device Policy  - Page 5 
 
3.2 - Procedures for Replacing Old Devices and/or repair to AUC asset: 
Users may occasionally replace their mobile devices. The criteria for replacing a device can be in the following 
circumstances: 
1. Three years after the initial purchase of the device. 
2. The phone becomes obsolete to the point where the user is no longer able to fulfill their professional 
responsibilities. 
3. The device becomes broken, damaged, or otherwise nonfunctional. 
Upon replacing a device, the old device must be immediately transferred back to the Personal Inventory and 
Warehouse Control Office. 
In cases where repair to AUC owned mobile devices are needed, the cost of repair of the faulty device is the 
responsibility of their users, and will be fixed or replaced at user cost, or at the cost of the user's department 
based on department head approval and in accordance with the Controller Office and Supply Chain Office 
procedures and policies. 
 
4 - Mobile Business Lines 
The University will only pay the minimum line charge that will allow for free intra-network business calls. 
Exceptions can be made for those who prove that they make frequent internetwork business calls during non-
working hours or while away from the office to the extent that the minimum compensation is grossly insufficient. 
The department head will be the arbiter of this and can approve larger sums. 
 
5 - Mobile Private Lines 
 
Private line owners may change their numbers up to a maximum of 3 times while in AUC employment. 
 
6 - Mobile Data Plans 
Mobile data plans are a particular concern given the possibility for exorbitant overage charges. The University 
should avoid purchasing data plans that charge overages and instead purchase plans that slow down internet 
speeds once a certain limit is reached whenever possible. If the University does purchase a plan with overages, 
any overage charges will be deducted from the device user’s salary.  
 
6.1 - Mobile Data Abroad 
Use of mobile data abroad has historically lead to large unintended expenses. To combat this problem, device 
users must switch off mobile data while abroad and use other means of accessing the Internet such as WiFi.  
Where users have AUC provided mobile lines, they are encouraged to contact the Telecom unit under the Office 
of IT to secure a data roaming package before travelling.  
 
 
Any overcharges that result from mobile data roaming other than from Wifi will be immediately deducted from 
the device user’s salary. Repeated violations can result in losing custody of the device and other disciplinary 
action. 
 
When it is required that the staff member be available/on call while abroad, he/she may be reimbursed for 
business related calls/data usage based on the department heads approval via the department, adhering to the 
policy and procedure for reimbursement of expenses to employees from the Controller’s office. 
 
7 - Accounting for Electronic Communication Device Charges 
Integrated Communication Device Policy  - Page 6 
The acquisition, subscription, and call charges of electronic communication devices are accountable to the unit 
or department to which the device custodian belongs. To that end, it is necessary for each unit or department 
to have an individual employee associated with each line so that individuals are held responsible for policy 
transgressions. Communal items like MiFis, ‘extra’ tablets, and their associated lines are the exception to this 
rule.  
 
7.1 - University Provided Equipment Fees 
Employees are responsible for the timely review and approval of monthly statements to substantiate the 
business use and to reimburse the University for any charges over the approved limit. The department head is 
responsible for ensuring that employees routinely review their statements and that any additional charges from 
personal use are reimbursed in a timely manner. 
 
To combat abuse and overuse of communication devices, The Office of Information Technology can, upon 
request,  provide each department head with a monthly statement showing the actual and average monthly 
cost of local and international calls for each mobile phone holder in his/her area. Unit Heads are requested to 
follow up with the individual’s concerned usage, which lies outside the normal pattern described above. The 
Office of IT also reserves the right to audit any abnormal or suspicious charges. 
 
The maximum service charge provided by the University is up to 500 LE per month (excluding taxes) per cell 
phone or any device. Any charges above this range will be deducted from the user’s salary. There are no 
exceptions to this rule. 
 
7.2 - Use of Privately Acquired Communication Devices 
For some service employees, there is not a sufficient need for them to be supplied with mobile phones or other 
electronic communications devices at AUC expense, but it has been determined beneficial to the university that 
they use their devices from time to time for business purposes. The employee is then responsible for purchasing 
their own device. 
 
For these selected categories, AUC can pay for local calls up to a maximum of LE 100 per month after securing 
the appropriate approval of the departments and area heads. The amount is intended to offset the business use 
of these devices/service and not as a reimbursement for the fixed acquisition cost. Departments and unit heads, 
in consultation with their relative area heads, may increase or decrease compensation but Departments must 
first secure approval from their area heads. 
 
This compensation also extends to international calls. However, the employee must prove that international 
phone calls are for legitimate business purposes and that it was not possible to make the call through a cheaper 
service such as Skype or Google Talk. 
 
 
 
8 - Best Practices Manual 
The Office of Information Technology has produced a best practices manual outlining how employees are to use 
their mobile devices, available as “Appendix” at the end of this policy. Employees who fail to abide by the 
guidelines are responsible for any unintended expenses that result from failure to abide by the manual. 
Repeated or severe policy violations can result in the device being taken away. 
 
9 - Custody of Mobile Phones: 
Integrated Communication Device Policy  - Page 7 
By receiving the required device that has been acquired at AUC expense, the holder accepts responsibility for 
the safekeeping of the device.  AUC shall replace or repair lost, stolen, or damaged devices at the expense of the 
individual concerned. The only exception to the foregoing is for replacement or repair of devices whose 
malfunctioning results from manufacturing defects beyond the user’s control. 
 
Employees should never loan their University wireless equipment to anyone other than other employees. 
Employees remain responsible for all use of their wireless device. Employees should immediately report any 
theft or loss of University wireless device to Telephone Services and Inventory Control Office. Upon separation 
from University service, employees must return University wireless devices to their department. 
 
The holder who passes on his/her device to another employee for business use remains liable for the 
safekeeping of the headset unless written acceptance of responsibility has been received from the transferee 
and sent to the Inventory Control office. 
Anyone presently in possession of one of these devices supplied at AUC expense that does not wish to accept 
custody responsibility should hand back his/her headset to his/her department without further delay. 
 
Forms 
 
IT assessment request form for AUC provided mobile: https://forms.gle/dNjbcSzx3i65jvgb8 
 
 
Related Information  
 
The ‘Best Practices for Device Custodians’ document can be found at the end of this policy as an Appendix. 
Step-by-step instructions on how to turn roaming off on different smartphones and devices can be found at 
http://telecom.aucegypt.edu/ 
 
 
 
Integrated Communication Device Policy  - Page 8 
 
Appendix 
 
BEST PRACTICES FOR DEVICE CUSTODIANS 
 
1 - Understanding the Device 
Employees who take custody of University-provided mobile devices are responsible for reading and 
understanding the devices user’s manual and any other relevant documentation. Users who incur unintended 
expenses as a result of not understanding their devices are still liable for overages. 
 
2 - Custody of Mobile Devices 
Employees who have custody of University-provided mobile phones should be keenly aware that the device 
remains University property and is not personal property or a fringe benefit. Employees must therefore adhere 
to the following best practices: 
1. Mobile devices must remain solely in the custody of the designated employee. 
2. Mobile devices may not be shared with non-University employees. 
3. Mobile devices can be occasionally used by other University employees for professional uses but they 
must remain in the custody of the holder. 
4. Mobile devices must be returned to the University’s Personal Inventory and Warehouse Control Office 
if the employee receives a replacement device or otherwise stops using the device. 
5. Mobile devices must be returned to the University’s Personal Inventory and Warehouse Control Office 
if the employee separates from the University or moves to a position that does not require a mobile 
device. 
 
3 - Mobile Data While Abroad 
University employees may not use mobile data while abroad because of the expense of data roaming. To 
eliminate the risk of Employees are required to turn off their device’s mobile data function while abroad and 
use local WiFi. 
 
4 - Alternative Telecommunication Methods 
Employees are encouraged to utilize alternative communication methods such as Skype, Google Talk, and 
WhatsApp, particularly for international communication.  
 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: February 26, 2013 
 
Last Amended Date: May 27, 2019 
  
Next Review Date: May 2020 
 

The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 1 
Intellectual Property Policy 
 
Policy Statement & Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
This policy (“Policy”) provides guidance to faculty, staff and students on the principles, practices, 
and procedures of the American University in Cairo (“AUC” or the “University”), with respect to 
Intellectual Property.  
 
This policy is based on two fundamental principles: 
1. Enhancing academic freedom; 
2. Protecting the respective interests of all concerned. 
Who Approved This Policy 
 
Approved by the Faculty Senate on May, 10, 2014 
Signed by the University President on May 20, 2014 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
1- The entire AUC community 
2- Visiting researchers and professors 
3- Outside entities engaging with AUC 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
http://www.aucegypt.edu/about/Policies/Pages/default.aspx 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official:  
For section I. “Inventions, Patents and Licensing” and section III. “Tangible research property” 
The Director of the Technology Transfer Office 
 
For section II. “Copyrights Policy” 
The Head of the University Research Board 
 
Responsible University Office: 
For section I. “Inventions, Patents and Licensing” and section III. “Tangible research property” 
The Technology Transfer Office 
 
For section II. “Copyrights Policy” 
The University Research Board 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 2 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure relating to section I. or III. of this 
policy, you may:  
 
 Call a Technology Transfer Office representative at 4834, or  
 Send an e-mail to tto@aucegypt.edu 
 
If you have any questions on the policy or procedure relating to section II. of this policy, you 
may:  
 
 Call the Head of the University Research Board (URB) 
 Send an e-mail to vpr@aucegypt.edu 
 
 
Policy/Procedures 
 
 
 
I. INVENTIONS, PATENT AND LICENSING   
I.1. Introduction  
This policy (“Policy”) provides guidance to faculty, staff and students on the principles, practices, 
and procedures of the American University in Cairo (“AUC” or the “University”), with respect to 
patents, inventions and licensing.  
This policy is based on three fundamental principles: 
3. Enhancing academic freedom; 
4. Providing a clear path to technology commercialization; 
5. Protecting the respective interests of all concerned. 
 
What is an Invention? 
An invention is a novel and useful process, machine, device, or composition of matter. It may 
provide a new way of doing something, or offer a new technical solution to a problem.  New or 
improved devices, systems, circuits, chemical compounds, mixtures, and the like are all examples of 
inventions. It is probable that an invention has been made when something new and useful has been 
conceived or developed, or when unusual, unexpected, or nonobvious results have been obtained 
and can be exploited. 
 
What is a Patent? 
A Patent is an exclusive right to exploit an invention for a term of years.  Patent protection means 
that the invention cannot be made, used, distributed or sold on a commercial scale without the 
patent owner's consent.  The usual patent term is twenty years from the date of application. 
 
The patent owner may give permission to other parties, or license them, to use the invention on 
mutually agreed terms. The owner may also sell the right to the invention to someone, who then 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 3 
becomes the new owner of the patent.   
 
A patent prevents others from using the invention without permission, but it does not give its owner 
an absolute right to use the patented invention. Third parties may hold rights in underlying 
technology or processes, and their permission may need to be sought for specific uses.   
 
Patents are granted only for an individual country and some for a specific region.  A patent granted 
in one country does not automatically provide protection against activity in another country.  The 
process of applying for patent protection is complex, expensive and lengthy.  It may take several 
years to receive a patent.  Once the patent expires, the protection ends, and the invention becomes 
part of the public domain.  This means that the owner no longer holds exclusive rights in it, and it 
becomes available for commercial exploitation, free of charge, by others. 
 
What is the Technology Transfer Office? 
The Technology Transfer Office (“TTO”) was established in June 2010 to ensure that practical 
research discoveries at AUC will be disseminated and used for public benefit.  Its purpose is to 
evaluate the commercial potential of AUC research discoveries and to manage the process of 
protecting, licensing and commercializing University inventions where appropriate.   All proceeds 
from commercialization are distributed internally to support future research and development, with 
the largest share going to the inventor and the inventor’s school or department.     
 
What is an Innovation Disclosure Form? 
An innovation disclosure form is a document that provides information about the inventor(s), what 
was invented, circumstances leading to the invention, and facts concerning subsequent activities. It 
provides a basis for a determination of patentability and the technical information for drafting a 
patent application.  An innovation disclosure is also used to report technology that may not be 
patented but is protected by other means such as copyright.   
I.2. Patent Policy 
I.2.1. All potentially patentable inventions conceived or first reduced to practice in whole 
or in part by members of the faculty or staff (including visiting faculty, guest 
researchers and student employees) of the University in the course of their University 
responsibilities or with more than incidental use of University resources shall be 
disclosed on a timely basis to the University.  Title to such inventions vests in the 
University, regardless of the source of funding, if any.   
I.2.2. Generally students shall own any potentially patentable invention that they make, 
discover, or create in the course of their research unless: 
(i) the student has received financial support from the University in the form of 
wages, salary, stipend or grant funds for the research; 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 4 
(ii) the student has made more than incidental use of University resources, outside of 
general classroom projects and instruction, in the form of funds, facilities or 
personnel, in connection with the research; 
(iii) the research was specially commissioned by the University or was co-invented 
with a University faculty member;   
(iv) the research depends on background intellectual property owned by the 
University; or 
(v) the research has been funded by a sponsor under a grant or sponsored research 
agreement, or is subject to a materials transfer agreement, confidential disclosure 
agreement or other legal obligation that restricts ownership of the intellectual 
property. 
In the above exceptional cases, any potentially patentable invention must be 
disclosed to the University, title shall vest in the University in accordance with this 
Policy, and the student shall be considered a covered inventor subject to all other 
terms of this Policy. 
I.2.3. Occasionally third parties sponsor contests, projects and other collaborations with 
students. In those cases, the sponsor may wish to claim ownership of resulting 
intellectual property. If so, with the exception of the cases described in section I.2.2, 
students must be informed of the requirement to transfer ownership to the sponsor at 
the beginning of the project. Students must agree to such ownership in writing as a 
condition to working on the project. If the collaboration is part of a course 
requirement, participating students must be presented with a choice of projects, 
some of which allow students to retain rights to their Intellectual Property 
I.2.4. Student, faculty, guest or staff inventors not otherwise covered by this Policy may 
choose to assign rights in their inventions to the University and take advantage of 
the assistance of the TTO.  In such cases, the invention shall be treated as a 
University invention in accordance with all other terms of this Policy. 
I.2.5. The University shall share royalties from inventions with the inventor(s) according 
to I.8.2 and I.8.3. 
I.2.6. The inventor(s) shall provide whatever assistance is required from the University to 
secure title to and commercialization of an invention. Such assistance may include 
executing declarations, assignments, or other documents as may be necessary in the 
course of invention evaluation, patent prosecution, or protection of patent or 
analogous property rights, to assure that title in such inventions shall be held by the 
University or by such other parties designated by the University as may be 
appropriate under the circumstances. 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 5 
I.2.7. The inventors, acting collectively when there is more than one, are free to place their 
inventions in the public domain if, after discussing their plans with the TTO, they 
believe it would be in the best interest of technology transfer and if doing so is not in 
violation of the terms of any agreements that supported or related to the work. 
I.2.8. Waivers of the provisions of this policy may be granted by the President on a case-
by-case basis, giving consideration among other things to University obligations to 
sponsors, whether the waiver would be in the best interest of technology transfer, 
whether the waiver would be in the best interest of the University and whether the 
waiver would result in a conflict of interest.  
I.2.9. Effective Date: This policy shall apply to all inventions conceived or reduced to 
practice on or after May 20, 2014. 
I.3. Policy Applicability and Procedures 
I.3.1. This Intellectual Property policy applies to all persons who work at AUC including, 
but not limited to: full-time and part-time faculty and staff and visiting faculty 
members and guest researchers. The policy also applies to undergraduate students, 
graduate students and post-doctoral fellows as required by Section I.2.2.  
I.3.2. Faculty and staff use of University resources, including facilities, personnel, 
equipment, or confidential information, except in a purely incidental way, for any 
non-University purposes, including outside consulting activities or other activities in 
pursuit of personal gain, is governed by the University’s Outside Activities and 
Conflict of Interest Policies.   
 
I.3.3. For the purposes of this Policy, “more than incidental use of University resources” 
would include: 
 
the use of specialized, research-related facilities, equipment or supplies, 
provided by AUC for academic and research purposes 
 
significant use of "on-the-job" time. 
 
I.3.4. The occasional and infrequent use of the following would typically not constitute 
"more than incidental use of University resources": 
 
routinely available, office-type equipment, including desktop computers, 
computer networks, and commercially- or publicly-available software 
 
reference materials or other resources collected on the AUC campus, and 
which are generally available in non-AUC locations. 
 
I.3.5. Patent Agreement: All individuals covered by this Policy and employed in any 
capacity by the University must sign the AUC University Patent Agreement. A 
variation of this agreement has been created for individuals with prior obligations 
regarding the disclosure and assignment of intellectual property. See Patent 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 6 
Agreement for Personnel who have a Prior Existing and Conflicting Intellectual 
Property Agreement with Another Employer. 
 
I.3.6. The Provost’s Office is responsible for getting the Patent Agreement signed, 
normally at the time of the individual's initial association with AUC. 
 
I.3.7. This Patent Policy constitutes an understanding that is binding on the University, 
and on its faculty, other employees, and other covered individuals as a condition of 
their participating in University research, educational and other programs or their 
use of University facilities or resources. The University may require formal patent 
agreements, such as that specified in Section I.3.5, to implement the Policy as 
appropriate, but the absence of such executed agreements shall not invalidate the 
applicability of the Policy. 
I.4.  Disclosure of Inventions to the University 
I.4.1. Disclosure Procedure 
I.4.1.1. Covered inventors must prepare and submit on a timely basis an innovation 
disclosure for each potentially patentable invention conceived or first reduced to 
practice in the course of their University responsibilities or with more than 
incidental use of University resources.   
I.4.1.2. An innovation disclosure form describing the invention and including other 
relevant facts should be prepared by the inventor and forwarded to the TTO.  
Disclosure forms and best ways to contact the TTO are available on the TTO 
website.   
 
I.4.1.3. Individuals covered by this policy are expected to apply reasonable judgment as to 
whether an invention has commercial potential. If such commercial potential exists, 
the invention should be considered "potentially patentable," and disclosed to AUC. 
 
I.4.1.4. Prompt identification of inventions is crucial to obtaining legal protection.    
Individuals covered by this policy should disclose a potential invention or seek 
guidance from the TTO as soon as questions arise as to what is patentable and what 
must be disclosed to the TTO.   
 
I.4.1.5. Any publication or public verbal disclosure (such as thesis presentations and 
competition pitching events) that describes a patentable invention prior to filing for 
patent protection may compromise the ability to obtain a patent in most countries in 
the world, including Egypt. Furthermore, most countries award patent rights on a 
first-to-file basis, so failure to timely identify an invention can mean forfeiture of 
legal protection. 
    
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 7 
I.5. Alternative Disposition of Rights 
I.5.1. Should AUC decide not to proceed in a timely manner to patent and/or at any later 
point not to maintain and/or license the invention, AUC shall notify the inventor(s).  
Should the inventor(s) so request, and to the extent possible under the terms of any 
agreements that supported or related to the work, AUC shall release or assign the 
invention to the inventor(s).  In such case, AUC will not be liable for any further 
maintenance, filing, legal, or other fees relating to the invention.  
I.5.2. The inventor, or inventors acting collectively when there is more than one, is free to 
place inventions in the public domain in accordance with Section I.2.7.  AUC will 
not assert intellectual property rights when inventors have placed their inventions in 
the public domain.  
I.6. Best Practices for Researchers 
I.6.1. It is highly advisable to document laboratory work using an ink pen in a controlled 
lab notebook with dated entries to reflect any steps, changes, new processes, 
observations, variations, results, during the entire process of research. 
 
I.6.2. Individuals covered by this policy are encouraged to seek guidance from the TTO 
before any publication or public disclosure of research that may result in a 
patentable invention.  
I.6.3. The inventor or university has the right to hold a closed and controlled thesis 
defense and presentation event in case the thesis, partially or fully, covers work that 
the university or inventor(s) believe is potentially patentable. The inventor(s) are 
encouraged to contact the TTO for guidance and support on procedures to hold such 
thesis events 
I.6.4. The inventor or university has the right to bar public access for a limited time to a 
thesis that is deemed to cover, partially or fully, the subject of an invention for 
which either party (university or inventor) wishes to pursue formal protection. This 
may be done through the Thesis Copyright and Availability form that is available 
through the AUC Library’s Digital Archive and Research Repository website.  
I.7. Intellectual Property Involving Sponsored Research 
I.7.1. Except as provided by Section I.7.3, inventions and technology conceived or first 
reduced to practice in the course of or resulting from research supported by a grant 
or contract with a third party agency or donor (collectively, “Donor” or “Donors”) 
shall be owned by the University. The Donor should be offered an option to acquire 
license rights to develop and commercialize any Intellectual Property resulting from 
the project.  
 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 8 
I.7.2. The TTO, in coordination with the University Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP), 
shall ensure that all reporting requirements and other obligations to Donors in 
relation to intellectual property are met. Intellectual Property arising from Donor-
supported research should be promptly disclosed to the TTO to ensure that all 
obligations in relation to Intellectual Property can be fulfilled. 
 
I.7.3. It is the policy of the University not to assign ownership of University inventions to 
outside Donors.  The acceptance of a contract, grant or agreement that requires 
ownership of proprietary technology or inventions by someone other than the 
University may be approved by the President, President-designee, or TTO Director 
if the benefit from the level of funding for the proposed research and/or other 
consideration from the Donor, licensee, or other third party outweighs the potential 
value of University ownership. 
 
 
1.8 Licensing and Commercialization 
I.8.1. General Considerations 
I.8.1.1. The University encourages commercial development of inventions and technology 
resulting from University research for public use and benefit.  It recognizes that 
protection of proprietary rights in the form of a patent or copyright are often 
necessary - particularly with inventions derived from basic research - to encourage a 
company to risk the investment of its personnel and financial resources to develop 
the invention. In some cases an exclusive license may be necessary to provide an 
incentive for a company to undertake commercial development and production. 
Non-exclusive licenses allow several companies to exploit an invention. 
I.8.1.2. The research and teaching missions of the University always take precedence over 
patent considerations. While the University recognizes the benefits of patent 
development, it is most important that the direction of University research not be 
established or unduly influenced by patent considerations or personal financial 
interests. 
 
I.8.1.3. The University may make such arrangements for the licensing, sale or other 
disposition of any Intellectual Property in any country as will reasonably serve the 
interests of the public, the inventor(s) and the University. The interests of the 
inventor(s) in such matters are recognized and preferences expressed by the 
inventor(s) as they make it known to the TTO, shall be given the strongest 
consideration.  
 
I.8.1.4. The University shall use reasonable efforts to notify the inventor(s) of any deals 
relating to their inventions within 30 days of executing such deal by the University. 
The University shall also submit, upon request by an inventor(s), periodic reports no 
more frequently than annually on the utilization of a subject invention by its 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 9 
licensees or assignees as is appropriate and permitted by the terms of the executed 
deal. Such reports, at a minimum, shall include information regarding the date of 
first commercial sale or use, and gross royalties received by the university. 
 
I.8.1.5. Exclusive Licensing agreements by AUC will contain a provision to terminate the 
license or cause the license to revert to AUC in the event that a licensee does not 
commercialize the Intellectual Property or otherwise make the Intellectual Property 
available to the public within a reasonable period of time.  
 
I.8.1.6. The University, in the exercise of its discretion, may take, or delegate others to take, 
such action as the University deems appropriate in order to enforce or defend any 
rights associated with any Intellectual Property within the University’s control under 
this Policy, and any such action, including the conduct and any settlement thereof, 
shall be subject to the University’s exclusive control. 
 
I.8.1.7. The TTO handles the evaluation, marketing, negotiations and licensing of 
University-owned inventions with commercial potential. Royalty distribution is as 
follows:  
I.8.2. Cash Royalties   
 
A deduction of all directly assignable expenses, typically patent filing fees, is taken from 
gross royalty income.  After such deductions, net royalty income is divided as follows:  
 
Gross Revenue 
Deduction of directly assignable expenses 
Net Revenue 
Inventor 
Inventor’s 
Department, 
Center or School 
University 
First LE 500,000  
70% 
15% 
15% 
Next LE 500,000 
50% 
25% 
25% 
Above LE 
1,000,000 
33% 
33% 
33% 
 
The above allocations reserve to the inventor a substantial share of royalty net revenue.  An 
additional portion will be administered by the entity(ies) named by the inventor to support 
future research and research-related expenditures for labs, facilities and personnel.  A final 
percentage generates unrestricted income for the University.  These net revenue levels shall 
be reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted by the President to account for currency fluctuations 
or inflation at least every five (5) years from the Effective Date of this Policy.        
  
I.8.2.1. When more than one department or center is involved, the inventor shall designate 
the distribution of the department share based on support of the work. 
Disagreements involving royalty distribution will be reviewed and resolved by the 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 10 
TTO; involved parties may appeal the TTO resolution to the Intellectual Property 
Committee. 
I.8.2.2. The inventor’s revenue share of any inventions will not be altered when affiliation 
with the University is terminated. 
 
I.8.2.3. Distribution of the inventor(s) share of cash royalties shall be made annually in 
November from the amount received during the previous fiscal year ending June 
30th. In the event of any litigation, actual or imminent, or any other action to protect 
patent rights, the University may withhold distribution and impound royalties until 
resolution of the matter. 
I.8.3. Equity Distribution 
If AUC does acquire equity in lieu or partial lieu of royalty or other payments for 
intellectual property, any inventor receiving an equity position from the company will not 
share in AUC’s equity.  For all other inventors, AUC will, upon occurrence of a liquidation 
event, distribute cash to the inventors according to the formula outlined in Section I.8.2 
above. 
 
I.8.4. Multiple Inventors 
In the case of multiple inventors, the inventors may enter into an agreement among 
themselves specifying a distribution formula that takes into account the differential 
contributions of the individual inventors. In the absence of such an agreement, the 
University’s policy will be to divide royalty payments equally to all inventors. Where 
multiple schools, departments or centers are involved, the University’s policy will be to 
divide royalty payments equally to all schools and/or centers unless (i) the inventors specify 
a different apportionment, or (ii) the President or Provost determines that an adjustment in 
payments is appropriate. 
I.9. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES  
I.9.1. Intellectual Property Policy activities shall be under the general cognizance of the 
President who will be advised by an Intellectual Property Committee. The 
Technology Transfer Office is responsible for implementation of the University’s 
Intellectual Property Policy, and shall be empowered to negotiate the University’s 
rights under the Policy.  
 
I.9.2. The Role of the Intellectual Property Committee is to:  
(a) Advise the President on policy matters relating to Intellectual Property and 
Intellectual Property Rights.  
(b) Propose amendments considered necessary to the Intellectual Property Policy.  
(c) Receive appeals, complaints, and arbitrate internal disputes relating to 
Intellectual Property and the administration of this Policy.  
 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 11 
I.9.3. The Intellectual Property Committee shall be appointed by the President after 
consultation with the Faculty Senate. One representative and the Chair of the 
Committee shall be the Associate Provost for Research Administration representing 
the Provost.  Two additional representatives shall be the TTO Director and the 
University Intellectual Property Counsel, if there is one.  The remaining 
representatives shall be selected from the following bodies and offices: (1) one 
representative from the Office of the Vice President for Finance; (2) one 
representative shall be selected from each school, center and other bodies as 
determined by the Provost; (3) and one representative shall be selected from the 
student body. Committee appointments (other than that of the student body 
representative, the TTO Director and the Intellectual Property Counsel) will be for 
three years; provided, however, that of the original members of the Committee, three 
shall be appointed for a term of one year, three shall be appointed for a term of two 
years, and the remainder shall be appointed for a term of three years. The student 
representative shall be appointed for a term of one year or until he/she graduates or 
ceases to be a full-time student, whichever comes first. Members of the Committee 
may be appointed to serve consecutive terms; but may not serve for more than six 
consecutive years. In the event any seat on the Committee is vacated prior to 
expiration of the normal term, the Chair may appoint a successor to fill the 
unexpired term of the seat vacated. 
 
I.9.4. The Intellectual Property Committee shall convene at least once a year at a time of 
the chair’s choosing but shall be expected to convene in response to any arising 
requests, conflicts, and/or complaints relating to the committee’s role as described in 
Section I.9.2 upon the request of the committee chair.  
 
I.9.5. Day-to-day management of all Intellectual Property Policy activities rests with the 
Technology Transfer Office. The Technology Transfer Office shall implement the 
decisions of the University Intellectual Property Committee as approved by the 
President.  
I.9.6. Appeals and Conflicts  
All persons to which this IP policy applies including university faculty, staff or 
students shall have the right to appeal any IP related matters or decisions to the 
Intellectual Property Committee. This shall be done by directly contacting the acting 
Intellectual Property Committee Chair. Appeals from committee decisions shall be 
made to the Provost. Appeals from decisions by the Provost shall be made to the 
President.  
I.9.7. Changes in Policy  
This policy may be changed by the President (i) on the recommendation of the 
Intellectual Property Committee, (ii) with the endorsement of the Faculty Senate, or 
(iii) on his/her own initiative, after consulting with the Intellectual Property Policy 
Committee and the Faculty Senate.    
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 12 
II. Copyright Policy 
II.1. What is Copyright? 
 
Copyright is a legal term describing rights given to authors for their literary and artistic 
works. The kinds of work covered by copyright include literary works, such as novels, poems, 
plays, reference works, newspapers, computer programs, databases, films, musical compositions 
and choreography, artistic works such as paintings, drawings, photographs and sculpture, 
architectural works, advertisements, maps and technical drawings. 
 
The creators of original works protected by copyright, and their heirs or assigns, have 
certain basic rights.  They have the exclusive right to use or authorize others to use the work on 
agreed terms (except in special cases typically involving non-profit research or commentary).  With 
respect to the work, creators can prohibit or authorize: 
 
its reproduction in various forms, including printed publication or sound recording; 
 
its public performance, as in the case of a play or musical work; 
 
its recording, for example on compact disc, cassette, or videotape; 
 
its broadcasting, whether by radio, cable or satellite; 
 
its translation into other languages, or its adaptation, such as that of a novel into a 
screenplay 
 
its modification or use to create a different work substantially based on or 
incorporating the original 
II.2. General Policy Statement 
II.2.1. The University recognizes and affirms the traditional academic freedom of its 
faculty, staff and students to publish pedagogical, scholarly, or artistic works 
without restriction.  
II.2.2. In accordance with long-standing academic tradition, the University recognizes 
faculty and student ownership of copyright in traditional works of authorship such as 
textbooks, other works of nonfiction and novels, articles, or other creative works, 
such as poems, musical compositions and visual works of art, whether such works 
are disseminated in print or electronically.  
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 13 
II.2.3. The University asserts copyright ownership in any work of authorship that is: (i) 
created with significant use of University resources, financial support or non-faculty 
University personnel beyond the usual level of common resources provided to 
similarly-situated affiliated individuals; (ii) created or commissioned for use by the 
University; or (iii) created under the terms of a sponsored project where the terms of 
the sponsored project require that copyright be in the name of the University. 
Additionally, any work created by an officer of administration (including a faculty 
member or officer of research only when acting in his or her capacity as an officer of 
administration) or by a support staff member acting within the scope of his or her 
employment generally constitutes an institutional work as defined by labor law, and 
the University asserts copyright ownership in such works. For the avoidance of 
doubt, even in the limited cases where the university asserts copyright ownership, 
faculty and students may continue to use all scholarly works they individually 
created at AUC for teaching, research and other traditional academic purposes as 
described in sections II.3.2.4 - II.3.2.7. 
II.2.4. Ordinary use of resources such as the libraries, one’s office, desktop computer and 
University computer network, Center for Learning and Teaching support, secretarial 
staff and supplies, is not considered to be substantial use of such resources for 
purposes of vesting the University with copyright ownership in a work. 
II.2.5. Where the University owns the copyright in a work, it will acknowledge creators 
(including creators of works-for-hire) who have made a substantial contribution to 
the work if the creators so request. 
II.2.6. NOTE: Copyrighted works expressed in software form are also governed by the 
AUC Patent Policy, which may provide an independent basis for University 
ownership. 
II.2.7. For all works of authorship for which the creator retains ownership under this policy 
and which are related to the author’s academic or professional duties at AUC, the 
University will retain a royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual, right and license to 
use and modify the materials solely for internal educational, instructional or any 
other normal University purposes. 
II.2.8. Creators will cooperate with the University in protecting ownership and other 
proprietary rights in the works in accordance with this Policy (for example, 
executing assignments to the University and any other necessary documents).  
 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 14 
II.3. Categories of Works.  Without limiting the foregoing, the following describe 
various categories of works in which the University would assert copyright ownership. 
II.3.1. INSTITUTIONAL WORKS.  The University shall retain ownership of copyrighted 
works created as Institutional works. Institutional works include works that are 
commissioned through a specific allocation of University funds or that are created at 
the direction of the University for a specific University purpose.  Institutional works 
also include works whose authorship cannot be attributed to one or a discrete 
number of authors but rather result from simultaneous or sequential contributions 
over time by multiple faculty and students. For example, software tools developed 
and improved over time by multiple faculty and students where authorship is not 
appropriately attributed to a single or defined group of authors would constitute an 
institutional work. The mere fact that multiple individuals have contributed to the 
creation of a work shall not cause the work to constitute an institutional work.   
II.3.2. COURSE CONTENT AND COURSEWARE 
II.3.2.1. General policy - Copyright ownership and control of course content and 
courseware are governed by this Copyright Policy, as well as the University’s 
Outside Interests and Activities and Conflict of Interest Policies and the 
Communications Policy governing use of the University name. "Courseware" is the 
set of tools and technologies used to present course content, and is independent of 
the content itself. "Course content" is the intellectual content of the course, as taught 
at or through the University. The University asserts copyright in course content and 
courseware that qualify as Institutional Works as defined in Section II.3.1 above.  To 
the extent that pre-existing faculty course content is incorporated into an 
Institutional Work, the faculty member agrees to grant and hereby does grant to 
AUC a perpetual, irrevocable right and license to continue to use, reproduce, 
modify, distribute, perform and display that course content as part of the same or 
future Institutional Works.    
II.3.2.2. The University recognizes faculty copyright ownership in non-institutional course 
content and courseware created by individual instructors. However, University 
policies on Outside Interests and Activities and Use of the University Name limit 
the faculty member’s ability unilaterally to commercialize non-institutional course 
content and courseware. The University will assert copyright ownership in such 
course content and courseware if there is an independent basis for the University’s 
assertion of such rights (e.g, the course content or courseware is created with 
substantial use of University resources, financial support or non-faculty personnel 
beyond the usual level, or pursuant to the terms of a sponsored project which require 
University copyright ownership). 
II.3.2.3. Videotapes and recordings - The University claims ownership rights in videotapes 
or other recordings of all courses, and the parts thereof that are made at University 
expense. Ownership of the videotape or recording itself does not mean that the 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 15 
University claims rights in the intellectual content presented on the tape or 
recording. Copyright ownership in the content is governed by the principles set forth 
above. 
II.3.2.4. Use of course content and courseware at AUC: Independently of copyright 
ownership, a faculty member has the right to use all course content and courseware 
he or she develops or creates in the normal course of teaching or research at AUC. 
This right includes the right to make changes to the works and the right to distribute 
such works to AUC students, faculty and other University personnel for teaching, 
research and other noncommercial University purposes. 
II.3.2.5. Use of course content and courseware outside of AUC: Independently of copyright 
ownership, a full-time faculty member may teach courses and create courseware at 
other academic institutions as part of ordinary scholarly exchanges, including 
visiting professorships and guest lectures, as long as these activities remain 
consistent with the terms set forth in the University’s policies on Outside Interests 
and Activities (including the provisions that require approval by the Provost and the 
appropriate dean or department head), and as long as these activities do not include 
or allow the separate commercialization of any course content, courseware or other 
teaching or research-related activities created or conducted there. A faculty member 
may not teach any course or create any course or courseware for an outside 
commercial enterprise without the approval of the appropriate department chair, 
dean and the Provost. 
II.3.2.6. Use of AUC course content and courseware outside of AUC: Consistent with the 
University’s policies on Use of the University Name and Outside Interests and 
Activities, a faculty member, notwithstanding copyright ownership, may not 
commercialize course content or courseware created or taught at AUC for use 
outside of the University without the approval of his or her respective department 
chair, dean and the Provost.  
II.3.2.7. Use of AUC course content and courseware after departure from AUC: If a faculty 
member leaves the University, he or she may continue to use all course content and 
courseware he or she created at AUC at another academic or not-for-profit research 
institution for teaching, research and other traditional educational purposes, 
provided the AUC name is not used in connection with the course content or 
courseware. A former faculty member may not commercialize any Institutional 
course content or courseware. A former faculty member is free to make commercial 
use of non-institutional course content and courseware that he or she developed or 
created at AUC and create new courses based thereon, provided that (i) there is no 
independent basis for the University’s claiming rights (e.g., created with substantial 
use of AUC resources, created or commissioned for use by AUC, or created under 
the terms of a sponsored project where the terms of the project require that copyright 
be owned by the University); and (ii) the AUC name is not used in connection with 
the course. The former faculty member who owns the copyright in course content or 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 16 
courseware agrees to grant to the University an irrevocable, nonexclusive right and 
license to continue using all non-institutional course content and courseware that has 
been made available at AUC by the faculty member, e.g. the syllabus and material 
given to students. This right includes the nonexclusive right and license to 
incorporate, modify, perform, distribute and display such course content and 
courseware into Institutional courses. 
II.3.2.8. Works by Non-Employees:  The University claims ownership of works prepared 
for the University by non-employees, such as consultants or subcontractors, retained 
by the University for a specific purpose. Accordingly, the University requires that 
there be a written agreement with any non-employee retained to do work for the 
University agreeing to assign ownership of any copyrightable works created by the 
non-employee to the University.  A separate assignment must then be signed 
following the completion of the work to ensure the full transfer of rights to AUC. 
II.4. This Copyright Policy constitutes an understanding that is binding on the University, and on 
its faculty, other employees, and other covered individuals as a condition of their 
participating in University research, educational and other programs or their use of 
University facilities or resources. The University may require formal copyright agreements 
to implement the Policy as appropriate, but the absence of such executed agreements shall 
not invalidate the applicability of the Policy. 
II.5. Nothing in this Policy shall constitute a waiver by the University of any rights that the 
University has under any other University policy, including the Patent Policy. 
II.6. Alternative Dispositions 
II.6.1. Making University-Owned Works Freely Available to the Public: If a creator of a 
work whose copyright is owned by the University, including a creator of a work-for-
hire, wishes to make a work freely available to the public, through noncommercial 
licensing or other means, the University, subject to the terms of any applicable 
agreements with third parties under which the work was created, will accommodate 
such wishes as long as it determines that the benefits to the public of making such 
works freely available outweigh any advantages that might be derived from 
commercialization. The University, through the Intellectual Property Committee, 
will act as expeditiously as reasonably possible in making such determination. 
 
 
 
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 17 
III. Tangible Research Property 
 
III.1. What is Tangible Research Property? 
 
Tangible Research Property (“TRP”) is tangible (or corporeal) material produced in the 
course of research projects at AUC. TRP includes such items as: biological materials, 
engineering drawings, computer software, integrated circuit chips, computer databases, 
prototype devices, circuit diagrams, and equipment. 
 
III.2. General Policy 
III.2.1. The University owns TRP related to an individual's employment responsibilities or 
developed with more than incidental support from university-administered funds, 
facilities, equipment or personnel. 
III.2.2. Prior to the transfer, distribution and/or sale of university-owned TRP, the creator of 
the TRP must notify the TTO through his or her Center or Department.  The Center 
or Department Head and the TTO will review the developmental history of the TRP 
to (1) assess any university obligations and (2) determine the conditions of such 
proposed transfer, distribution or sale.  
III.2.3. If the TRP is determined by the center or department and the TTO to have 
commercial value, it will be managed by the TTO as University intellectual 
property, including licensing and distribution of income from commercialization in 
accordance with Section I.8 of this Intellectual Property Policy.  
III.2.4. If the center or department and the TTO determine that the TRP can be distributed 
or sold outside of the university for non-commercial research purposes with no 
financial consideration beyond the recovery of costs associated with shipping and 
handling, the center or department will manage and facilitate the transfer and 
distribution with assistance from the TTO as needed.  
III.2.5. Any transfer, distribution or sale of TRP for commercial purposes must include a 
written agreement between the university and the recipient of the TRP, and any 
transfer or distribution of TRP for non-commercial purposes must include a written 
agreement between the university and the recipient of the TRP. 
 
Forms/Instructions  
 
Innovation Disclosure Form:  
Found at the University’s TTO website at:  
http://www.aucegypt.edu/research/TTO/Pages/InventionDisclosure.aspx 
 
 
The American University in Cairo                                                          
 
Page 18 
AUC University Patent Agreement 
Found at the University’s TTO website at:  
http://www.aucegypt.edu/research/TTO/Pages/DocsusefulLinks.aspx 
 
Thesis Copyright and Availability Form 
Found at the University’s thesis preparation and submission page at: 
http://www.aucegypt.edu/academics/grad/pages/thesisguidelines.aspx 
 
 
Related Information  
 
Conflict of Interest Policy:  
Found at the university policies website at: 
http://www.aucegypt.edu/about/Policies/Pages/default.aspx 
 
University Communications Policy: 
Found at the university communications policy website at: 
http://www.aucegypt.edu/offices/communications/policies/Pages/default.aspx 
 
 
Appendices 
 
Previous Intellectual Property Policy. 2007 
Found at the University’s TTO website at: 
http://www.aucegypt.edu/research/TTO/Pages/DocsusefulLinks.aspx 
 
 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: May, 20, 2014 
Last Amended Date: March, 25, 2007 
Next Review Date: May, 20, 2019 
 

 
1 | P a g e  
 
 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 27, 2012 
 
INTERNATIONAL CALLS & FAXES POLICY 
 
Policy Statement  
 
The AUC recognizes the need of departments to use international calls and faxes for continuous business 
operation.  This policy outlines the procedure when the AUC community requests/makes international calls 
and faxes for business as well as private purposes.    
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
A different approach is followed for collecting payment for business and private international calls and faxes 
on behalf of AUC.   AUC does not pay for private international calls or faxes but this is the responsibility of 
each individual requesting the service at the time of service request.   
Failure to comply with this policy may result in termination of the international function on an extension 
and/or a department cost center being charged in full for costs incurred by faculty or staff for either business 
or private international calls and faxes.  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
Vice President for Planning & Administration  
 
Mr. Brian MacDougall 
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Technology Officer 
 
 
 
 
Ms. Nagwa Nicola 
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
Staff, faculty and students who intend to make international calls/faxes for business and private purposes.   
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
In progress. 
 
Contacts  
 
 
2 | P a g e  
 
Responsible University Official:   
Mr. Hussein Moustafa, Director:  UTI and Mr. Khaled Mahmoud, 
Associate director, UTI - Telecom 
Responsible University Office:  
University Technology Infrastructure (UTI) 
 
If you have any questions on this policy or procedure, you may:  
1. 
Call mr. Hussein Moustafa at  2615.3562, or Khaled Mahmoud at 2615.3535 
2.  
Send an e-mail to hussein@aucegypt.edu or kreem@aucegypt.edu 
 
Definitions: 
 
Term (alphabetical order) 
Definition as it relates to this policy 
AUC 
The American University in Cairo 
UTI 
University Technology Infrastructure 
 
Policy/Procedure: 
 
Business international calls: 
A) Faculty: 
 
1. The faculty member has to provide either his/her AUC id# or cost center, preferably both when 
contacting the AUC switchboard to make an international business call.   The AUC operator 
completes a form indicating the caller’s name, number called from and confirming the caller’s 
department by his/her name using the AUC directory. 
2. Once the faculty member gives the number to be dialed to the AUC operator, the call is ended and 
the operator will connect the caller directly to Telecom Egypt (TE) using the number provided 
(extension or home number). 
3. Once the call is finished, the call duration will be provided to the AUC operator by Telecom Egypt 
and the calling time is noted on the sheet. 
4. At month end an email approval request is sent to the department chair from the Head of Tel & Fax 
Operation to confirm and approve business international calls.  It is imperative that the cost center 
is indicated by the department chair.  
5. The Head of Tel & Fax Operation submits a signed report to the Telecom Accountant who prepares 
a General Journal Voucher to DR the cost center and CR the UTI communication budget. 
 
B) Staff: 
 
1. The Telecom Accountant retrieves information of international business calls from:  
a) the AUC billing system, per extension on a quarterly basis and/or  
b) a report provided to him by the Head of Tel & Fax Operation. 
 
3 | P a g e  
 
2. When a staff member completes the form for requesting international capabilities on his/her 
extension, the cost center to be charged for calls has to be included on the form.  
3. It is the responsibility of the requester to inform the Telephone & Fax office of any changes in 
original information supplied, eg. cost center.  
4. The Telecom Accountant completes a General Journal Voucher to DR the department that the 
extension belong to, CR the UTI communication budget. 
5. We are currently working on automation of some processes.  One such process would be the 
availability of a monthly report for review by the department  chair from the telecom website, 
arranged by cost center.*   
 
Private International calls: 
 
A) 
Faculty: 
1. The faculty member has to provide either his/her AUC id# or cost center, preferably both when 
contacting the AUC switchboard to make an international private call.   The AUC operator fills in a 
form indicating the caller’s name, number called from and confirming the caller’s department by 
his/her name using the AUC directory. 
2. Once the Faculty member gives the number to be dialed to the AUC operator, the call is ended and 
the operator will connect the caller directly to Telecom Egypt (TE) using the number provided 
(extension or home number). 
3. Once the call is finished, the TE operator contacts the AUC operator giving the call duration and the 
calling time is noted on the sheet by the telephone operator. 
4. At month end all private calls are combined into one sheet sorted by Faculty member and this list 
(including the detailed calling sheet) is sent to AUC Payroll by the Telephone office with a copy to 
the Telecom Accountant and the Financial & Admin Manager, IT.   
5. The Payroll office deducts the amount for private international calls directly from the payroll, CR 
the UTI communication budget. 
 
B) 
Students: 
1. A student who wish to make an international private call, has to visit the telephone office in 
person.   The student pays for the call immediately in cash where cash collected is kept in a locked 
safe till month end. 
2. The student receives a receipt of payment;  a copy is kept with the telephone operator. 
3. At month end, the cash is paid into the UTI Communication budget via cash collection advice at CIB 
by the Telephone office. 
4. Copies of all receipts with corresponding CIB deposit slips are kept with the Head of Tel & Fax 
Operation for future reference. 
 
4 | P a g e  
 
 
 
C) Staff: 
 
 
1. The same steps #1 to 3 are followed as for a faculty member. 
2. The staff member is informed of the cost of their call by the AUC telephone operators upon 
finishing the call. 
3. The staff member has the option of paying for private calls in cash by visiting the Telephone office 
(located on the ground floor in the New Cairo Campus center beneath the Faculty Lounge). 
4. If the staff member does not pay in cash, the Head of Tel & Fax Operation will send a notice to the 
staff member via internal mail at the end of the month indicating the amount to be paid. 
5. Once cash is collected, a receipt as proof of payment will be issued to the staff member.  Cash 
collected is kept in a locked safe till month end. 
6. At month end, a collection advice is prepared and cash paid into the UTI communication budget at 
CIB.  Copies of all receipts with corresponding CIB deposit slips are kept with the Head of Tel & Fax 
Operation for future reference. 
7. If private calls are not paid for by the staff member before the monthly payroll date, the amount 
due will be deducted directly from the staff member’s monthly salary by the Payroll office. 
 
Business faxes: 
1. The staff/faculty member use internal mail or an office custodian and send the document they wish to 
fax attached to the completed fax request form (available from the Telecom website).   
2. The fax operator is responsible for sending the fax as per details provided on the fax form.    
3. At month-end the Head of Telephone & Fax operation collects all the fax forms, and submits it to the 
Telecom Accountant.  He prepares a journal voucher to charge the departments according to the 
information provided on the original fax form. 
 
Personal faxes: 
 
1. The student, staff or faculty member takes the document they wish to fax to the fax office in person.   
2. After it is faxed, they are notified of the cost and pay the Fax operator directly whereupon the operator 
furnishes the requester with a receipt.   
3. Cash is kept in a locked safe in the operator office until month end when a collection advice is 
completed by the Head of Telephone & Fax Operation (with a copy of the receipts) and cash paid into 
the UTI communication budget at CIB. 
 
5 | P a g e  
 
4. Copies of all receipts with corresponding CIB deposit slips are kept with the Head of Tel & Fax 
Operation. 
 
Forms: 
 
The fax form is available online from the Telecom website :   http://telecom.aucegypt.edu/ 
 
Related Information: 
 
Current Telecom Egypt rates for international calls and faxes are available from http://telecom.aucegypt.edu/ 
– periodically updated as rates may change. 
Appendices (Optional): 
 
None. 
History/Revision Dates: 
 
Origination Date:  
September, 2012 
Last Amended Date:  4 March 2013 
Next Review Date:  
4 March 2014 

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
• Page 1 of 6 
__________________________________________________________________________
_ 
Document title: [IT Configuration Management Policy – Oct 2022] 
 
Approval date: [October 2021] 
 
Purpose of document: [ Govern and describe IT configuration management within 
AUC] 
 
Office/department responsible: [Office of Information Security] 
Approved by: [ Iman Megahed, AVP for Digital Transformation & Chief Strategy & 
Knowledge Officer ] 
 
Document classification level: [PUBLIC] 
 
Document accessible: [https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies] 
 
Document includes: [Policy and approvers]  
 
Related documents/see also: [Change management policy, Digital computing asset 
management policy, Digital asset disposal policy, Cloud hosting policy, Information 
security policy, Patch management policy] 
__________________________________________________________________________
_ 
 
IT Configuration Management Policy 
 
Policy Statement 
 
Configuration Management is the discipline that identifies, records, controls, and reports on 
the IT infrastructure components such as hardware, software, documentation, services, 
personnel, and any other items (known as Configuration Items-CI’s) and verifies the 
completeness and correctness of the configuration items. 
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose 
 
The purpose of an effective and efficient IT Configuration Management includes: 
• To provide accurate IT infrastructure information to stakeholders. 
• To monitor and control IT infrastructure. 
• To provides a foundation for Incident Management, Problem Management, and Change 
Management. 
• To collect inventory for all IT assets, configurations, and relationships. 
• To verify the configuration item records against infrastructure. 
• To provides a comfort level to the business in terms of assets and expenditures at an 
accurate level. 
• To assist in the IT business resilience building. 
 
Who Approved This Policy 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
• Page 2 of 6 
 
Iman Megahed, AVP for Digital Transformation & Chief Strategy & Knowledge 
Officer  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy  
 
AUC Staff and Faculty 
 
Web Address for this Policy 
 
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies 
 
Contacts 
 
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security, and Risk 
Officer. 
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security  
 
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an e-mail to infosec@aucegypt.edu 
 
Definitions 
 
Term (alphabetical order) 
Definition as it relates to this policy 
Configuration Item (CI) 
Any Component that needs to be managed to deliver an IT 
Service. Information about each CI is recorded in a Configuration 
Item record within the Configuration Management System. 
Examples such as software version, software-enabled features, 
hardware capability, hardware configuration, software 
configuration, connectivity configuration, access-list…etc. 
Configuration Management 
The Process responsible for maintaining information about 
Configuration Items required to deliver an IT Service, 
including their relationships. This information is managed 
throughout the lifecycle of the CI. 
Configuration Management 
Database (CMDB) 
A database used to store Configuration Records throughout 
their Lifecycle. 
Configuration Management 
System (CMS) 
Configuration Management System is a set of tools and 
Configuration Management Databases used to manage 
Configuration data. The CMS also includes information about 
Incidents, Problems, Known Errors, Changes, and Releases; 
IT Infrastructure 
All of the hardware, software, networks, facilities, etc., 
required to develop, test, deliver, monitor, control, or support 
IT Services. 
RFC 
Request For Change 
 
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
• Page 3 of 6 
Policy/Procedures 
 
Configuration Management Database  
 
The objective is to implement a CMDB that will provide a single source of information 
about the components of the IT environment. This information will be used to improve 
system reliability, availability, and control. By establishing a database to track IT 
components, known as configuration items (CIs), configuration management will verify 
that only authorized components are used in the IT environment; this is an important 
aspect of control because an unauthorized component could introduce undocumented 
issues that could be detrimental and/or have difficult-to-trace effects on related 
components in the production environment. 
 
High-Level Control Objective  
 
IT will exercise controls over the IT processes for managing the configuration that satisfies 
the information security and regulatory requirements to account for IT components, 
prevent unauthorized alterations, verify physical existence, and provide a basis for sound 
Change Management function by implementing procedures that allow for:  
• 
Asset and Configuration ownership and tracking. 
• 
Configuration change management 
• 
Checking for unauthorized configuration items 
• 
Software, hardware, and configuration interrelationships and integration 
• 
Use automated tools as possible. 
 
Activities  
 
The basic activities structure of Configuration Management are as follows:  
 
1. Planning: Studying and defining the purpose, scope, objectives, policies, and 
procedures, and the organizational and technical context for Configuration 
Management.   
2. Identification: Selecting and identifying the configuration structures for all the 
infrastructure's CI’s, including their "owner'', their interrelationships, and 
configuration documentation. It includes allocating identifiers and version numbers 
for CI’s, labeling each item, and entering it into the Configuration Management 
Database (CMDB).   
3. Control: Ensuring that only authorized and identifiable CI’s are accepted and 
recorded, from receipt to disposal. It ensures that no CI is added, modified, 
replaced, or removed without appropriate controlling documentation, e.g., an 
approved Change request and an updated specification.   
4. Status accounting: The reporting of all current and historical data concerned with 
each CI throughout its life cycle. This enables Changes to CI’s and their records to 
be traceable, e.g., tracking the status of a CI as it changes from one state to another, 
for instance: "under development, under test, live or inactive." 
5. Verification and audit: A series of reviews and audits that verify the existence of 
CI’s and check that they are correctly recorded in the Configuration Management 
system.   
 
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
• Page 4 of 6 
Selection of Configuration Items to be managed  
 
The components that will be managed by the Configuration Management function will be 
selected, considering the business relevance and importance of the component and the 
relationship(s) it has with other components within the IT environment. The priority 
Components to be managed will be for those that:  
• 
Are necessary for the effective operation of AUC business. 
• 
Support the provision of IT services.  
• 
Can be seriously impacted by changes to other components within the environment.  
• 
Found to be necessary in case of disaster recovery and business continuity 
scenarios. 
 
The decision to include a component in the CMDB will be reviewed at periodic intervals by 
the Configuration Manager in conjunction with IT management. Any suspicious change 
should be reported instantly to the information security office. 
 
Configuration Management Governance: 
 
1. The final step in any approved IT change “for more information, kindly refer to Change 
Management policy” there will be an update and verification of the CMDB. The configuration 
manager will oversee the verification of CIs in the change record. 
 
2. The access to the CMDB will be restricted according to business requirement needs. 
 
3. All defined assets comprising the end-to-end delivery of any defined digital service will be 
documented in the CMDB.  
 
4. The CMDB will maintain asset and configuration information to support internal and external 
IT Service Management and functional stakeholders. 
 
5. The Configuration Management process will remain refreshed in terms of identified process 
improvement opportunities and continually improved and optimized over time. An annual 
review is recommended. 
 
6. Configuration Management will provide accurate configuration information to the 
organization and will ensure that any discrepancy is corrected when found. Typically, this will 
involve notification to the Asset Manager. 
 
7. All changes documented within the CMDB are required to result from RFCs managed 
through the Change Management process or through approved automated discovery, 
update, and audit methods that can be verified. 
 
8. Retired CIs should be retained within the CMDB and have their status updated. 
 
9. All system and application administrators shall follow information security office configuration 
and architecture hardening baselines/guidelines. 
 
Configuration Recording  
 
Procedures will be in place to ensure that only authorized and identifiable configuration 
items are recorded in inventory upon acquisition. These procedures will also provide for 
the authorized disposal of configuration items. Procedures will also be in place to keep 
track of changes to the configuration (e.g., new item, change status). 
Logging and control will be an integrated part of the configuration recording system, 
including reviews of changed records.   
 
 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
• Page 5 of 6 
 
Configuration Baseline  
Configuration baselines are approved standards that IT is committing to implement to 
comply with standards, regulatory, and information security guidelines. 
 
IT management will ensure that a baseline of configuration items is kept as a checkpoint to 
return to after changes.   
 
Status Accounting  
 
IT management will ensure that the configuration records reflect the actual status of all 
configuration items, including the history of changes.  
 
Configuration Control   
 
These are the procedures that will ensure the existence and consistency of recording of the 
IT configuration and periodically checking. 
 
Any unauthorized/intentional false configuration change on AUC assets is prohibited and 
penalized as per AUC internal disciplinary processes. 
 
The use of personal and unlicensed software on AUC-owned digital assets is prohibited. IT 
management will periodically check the organization’s digital assets for unauthorized 
software. Compliance with the requirements of software and hardware license agreements 
will be reviewed on a periodic basis. 
 
Configuration Management Procedures  
 
Configuration management procedures will be established to ensure that critical 
components of the organization’s IT resources have been appropriately identified and are 
maintained. There will be an integrated process whereby current and future processing 
demands are measured and provide input to the IT resource acquisitions process. Note that 
the Configuration Management process is embedded in the Change Control Process, 
including rollback procedures.   
 
Software Accountability  
 
The software will be labeled, inventoried, and properly licensed. Library management 
software will be used, when possible, to produce audit trails of program changes and to 
maintain program version numbers, creation-date information, and copies of previous 
versions. 
 
Roles 
 
IT leadership should appoint the below roles to execute and maintain the processes: - 
1. Configuration Manager  
2. Configuration Administrator 
History/Revision Dates 
 
Origination Date: October 2021 
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC 
October 2022 
 
• Page 6 of 6 
Last Amended Date: October 2021 
Next Review Date: October 2025 

Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
IT Data Center and IT Rooms Access Policy • Page 1 of 3  
October 2022  
___________________________________________________________________________  
Document title: [IT Data Center and IT Rooms Access Policy – October 2022]  
  
Approval date: [March 2018]  
  
Purpose of document: This document addresses the management of access to the IT data 
center and IT rooms   
  
Office/department responsible: Office of Information Security   
Approved by: Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
  
Document classification level: PUBLIC  
  
Document accessible: [ [https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies]]  
  
Related documents/see also: [ AUC Data Governance Policy, Information Security Policy,  
Electronic Mail Email Policy, Acceptable Use Policy, Peer to Peer Sharing Policy ]  
___________________________________________________________________________  
  
IT Data Center and IT Rooms Access Policy  
  
 
Policy Statement  
 
  
AUC central digital computing assets must be protected; by all means, this includes securing 
adequately the physical security of IT devices located in the IT data center and IT rooms. All 
reasonable controls should be implemented as securing AUC data starts with securing the 
devices and core network infrastructure.  
  
 
Reason for Policy/Purpose  
 
  The purpose of this patch management policy is to enable AUC to:   
    
    Ensure the community are fully aware of the requisite security needed to secure the data 
centers and IT rooms from any unauthorized access  
  
 
Who Approved This Policy  
 
  
Nagwa Nicola, Chief Technology Officer  
  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
IT Data Center and IT Rooms Access Policy • Page 2 of 3  
 
Who Needs to Know This Policy   
 
  
Entire AUC community  
 
Web Address for this Policy  
 
  
https://www.aucegypt.edu/about/university-policies  
  
 
Contacts  
 
  
Responsible University Official: Wessam Maher, Chief Information Security and Risk 
Officer. 
Responsible University Office: Office of Information Security. 
If you have any questions on the policy, you may send an e-mail to infosec@aucegypt.edu  
  
 
Definitions  
 
  
Term   
Definition as it relates to this policy  
Vulnerability  
Weakness in system or application that allows attackers or 
abusers to take advantage and affect the system/application 
confidentiality, integrity, or availability.  
Patch  
Is a code or software update that covers/solves a certain 
vulnerability  
Digital Computing Asset  
PC, Laptop, Server, Printer, Network device, storage device, 
phones……etc.  
  
 
Policy/Procedures  
 
  
1. All infrastructure devices and IT services should be protected from any physical 
tampering, sabotage, interference, or unauthorized physical access.  
2. All IT services and their associated devices shall be collected in centralized, 
physically protected places like data centers and dedicated IT rooms in buildings.  
3. Devices setup and arrangement should follow international standards to ensure 
adequate protection for the assets.  
4. Data Centers and IT rooms should be protected by appropriate physical controls like 
appropriate locks and CCTV surveillance according to the criticality.  
Information Classification Level: PUBLIC  
  
IT Data Center and IT Rooms Access Policy • Page 3 of 3  
5. Data Centers and IT rooms cannot be used for any other purpose or as a storage 
facility.  
6. Access to Data Centers and IT rooms should be granted to authorized persons only.  
7. Visitors must be escorted at all times.   
8. All visits and access actions should be logged appropriately.  
9. Protection against disasters and environmental incidents should be well implemented.  
10. Access rights should be reviewed periodically.  
11. When applicable, racks doors should be locked  
12. Access controls logs and CCTV surveillance recording logs should be kept 
adequately, and historical data should be kept for an acceptable time span.  
13. Central IT Office is the only entity authorized to allow the creation of IT data centers 
and IT rooms, Schools and special research units should grant IT formal approval.  
14. AUC IT services shouldn’t be allocated outside the approved central IT data center/IT 
rooms. Exceptions must be approved by both the CTO and Chief Information Security 
and Risk Officer.  
  
  
Exceptions  
Exceptions should be a minimum; if they exist, they should be approved by Information 
Security Office and Infrastructure director.  
  
Enforcement  
Any user found to have violated this policy (or part thereof) may be subject to disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination of employment or dismissal from the University  
  
  
 
Related Information   
 
  
AUC Data Governance Policy   
Information Security Policy  
Electronic Mail Email Policy  
Acceptable Use Policy  
Peer to Peer Sharing Policy  
  
  
 
History/Revision Dates  
 
  
Origination Date:  
March 22nd, 2018  
Last Amended Date:  March 22nd, 2018  
Last Review Date:  
October, 2022 
Next Review Date:  
October 2025  

AUC IT Procedure 
and Guidelines 
For Remote Access Tools Usage 
AUC IT uses remote support software to support any staff, faculty, classroom, meeting room, or 
hall in a fast response. The user is required to arrange a remote session with the technical 
support team. User acceptance for a remote session to occur is mandatory. 
 
Approved Remote Actions 
The allowed actions when doing a remote support session are: 
• 
Asking the user to restart if needed. 
• 
Asking the user to control or open applications or webpage for testing. 
• 
Asking the user permission to send file to his computer. 
 
 
IT staff will never ask for sharing or disclosing user's credentials or any confidential information 
during remote support sessions. 
 
Used Applications:  
Applications and their zone of usage: 
• 
Classrooms: VNC 
• 
Offices: Zoom 
 
IT Procedures: 
• 
IT commits to keeping logs and traces for actions as applicable and as guided by the information 
security office. Remote access software keeps and provides detailed logs for all remote 
activity that took place on any computer as guided by information security office 
regulations. 
• 
IT commits to following information security policies, procedures, and guidelines to ensure the 
safety and confidentially of AUC assets and data. Ex. Won’t install cracked software, won’t loosen 
security configuration on any device…etc. 
• 
Only defined and limited IT staff has the right to use the remote support feature. Any 
exception is not allowed, and if requested, it will need senior management's explicit and 
documented approval. 
• 
Any violation of this procedure will subject the violator to sanctions up to dismissal. 
Procedures for Important and Critical System patch updates 
• When a new critical or important security patch update for your computer system is 
issued, a friendly message will appear asking you to save your work on the computer and 
your acceptance for restart to install updates. We will not force your computer to restart 
automatically. 
 
 These updates are critical to secure your computer and to keep it working with better performance. 
 
Procedures for Remote Support in Classrooms and Labs 
For remote support in classrooms, ACTSS support staff use DameWare application. 
1. When ACTSS support staff gets a call for 
technical assistance in classrooms, he informs the 
caller that he will log in now to the classroom 
computer to fix the problem. Once he logs in, the 
user is prompted to accept/reject the remote 
login. The pop-up window shows the username of 
the support staff who is requesting access to the 
computer. 
 
 
2. When the user accepts the remote login, a 
popup window will show him the username and 
computer name of the staff who logged in to the 
computer. 
 
3. After support staff finishes his task and logs 
out, a pop window will show the user that the 
remote login has been ended and the support 
user has disconnected. 
 
Guidelines: 
Bits of Advice to users while receiving remote support service: 
• 
Be attentive  
• 
Connect to a good internet source 
• 
Direct the team to the problem  
• 
close the session after the job is done 
• 
Never share or disclose your credentials or any confidential information during remote support 
sessions. 



 

 


